Article
The Phenomenon and Development of K-Pop: The
Relationship between Success Factors of K-Pop and the
National Image, Social Network Service Citizenship
Behavior, and Tourist Behavioral Intention

Joon-ho Kim   1   , Kwang-jin Kim   2, Bum-tae Park   3 and Hyun-ju Choi    4,*

                               1  The Cultural Policy Laboratory, Sangmyung University, Cheonan-si 31006, Korea; kshy4u@naver.com
                               2  Department of Dance, Chung-Ang University, Seoul 06974, Korea; kkjballet@naver.com
                               3  Department of Cultural Contents, Korea University Graduate School, Jochiwon-eup, Sejong-si 30019, Korea;
                                  jang6275@naver.com
                               4  Department of Cultural & Arts Management, Sangmyung University, Cheonan-si 31066, Korea
                               *  Correspondence: hyunju_choi@naver.com

                               Abstract: This study aims to understand the impact of six success factors of K-pop on the national
                               image of Korea perceived by global viewers and SNS citizenship behavior. In addition, this study
                               seeks to validate the impact of the national image of Korea/SNS citizenship behavior, as deﬁned in the
                               foregoing, on tourist behavioral intention. Our analysis was conducted within the theoretical frame-
                     works of the SERVQUAL, Image Theory, and the Theory of Planned Behavior. To that end, 1247 global
     
                               viewers (eight countries) who have listened, watched and searched for information on K-pop are sur-
Citation: Kim, J.-h.; Kim, K.-j.;
                               veyed. Four statistical programs (SPSS/SmartPLS/GSCA Pro/JASP) are used for regression analysis
Park, B.-t.; Choi, H.-j. The
                               and structural equation modeling. The results indicate the following. (1) Four K-pop success factors
Phenomenon and Development of
                               (producers, casting, producing/promotion, and contents) demonstrate a statistically signiﬁcant posi-
K-Pop: The Relationship between
Success Factors of K-Pop and the tive inﬂuence on national image. (2) Two K-pop success factors (casting and producing/promotion)
National Image, Social Network demonstrate a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior. In addition,
Service Citizenship Behavior, and K-pop contents has a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior (only in
Tourist Behavioral Intention.  SPSS). (3) National image has a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior;
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200. and national image and SNS citizenship behavior have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on
https://doi.org/10.3390/       tourist behavioral intention. As an exemplary cultural product, K-pop is creating economic added
su14063200                     value. It is necessary to establish the measures to integrate K-pop in product planning and PR for

Academic Editor: Pablo         sustainable marketing for Hallyu tourism.
Juan Cárdenas-García
                               Keywords:  success factors of K-pop; national image; SNS citizenship behavior; tourist behavioral
Received: 30 January 2022      intention; global viewers; regression analysis; structural equation model analysis
Accepted: 7 March 2022
Published: 9 March 2022

Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in 1. Introduction
published maps and institutional afﬁl- Korean popular music (K-pop) enjoys worldwide recognition. K-pop slowly advanced
iations.                       onto the international stage in the late 1990s [1]. In the beginning, K-pop was popular
                               mainly in East Asia. For this reason, numerous media and scholars attributed K-pop success
                               to the common culture of Confucianism at the time [2]. However, the popularity of K-pop

Copyright: © 2022 by the authors. has expanded beyond East Asia and is growing in Europe, North and South America, and
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. Africa [3]. Due to its media-friendly nature, K-pop has proven to be resilient even during
This article is an open access article the COVID-19 pandemic. In other words, the spread of K-pop is greatly credited to its
distributed under the terms and online circulation on social media and the internet [4].
conditions of the Creative Commons  In addition, digitalization had an impact on many domains including the producers
Attribution (CC BY) license (https:// and consumers of the music industry. From  a macroscopic point of view, the music
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/ industry has been transformed from     analogue to digital, from   ofﬂine to online, from
4.0/).                         albums to singles, from    division of labor to integration of companies, from      domestic


Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14063200 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                           2 of 30


                           distribution to international distribution, and from music to imagery. In terms of music
                           consumption, it shifted to accessing and maximizing the synergy through integration from
                           owning music catalogues [5]. Amid such transformation, the Korean music industry was
                           able to improve its global competitiveness by embracing technology development and
                           digitalization, successfully launching K-pop into the world market [6].
                                Along with the development of digital devices, online media such as YouTube, Face-
                           book, and Twitter became extremely popular. Because the Korean music industry does
                           not closely observe the copyright act, internet media were utilized more actively than in
                           other countries [7]. The largest entertainment companies created YouTube channels and
                           immediately released their new songs. As internet media targeted the global population,
                           K-pop was widely spread and shared around the world. Furthermore, social media allowed
                           K-pop artists to connect and build bonds with their fans, resulting in the formation of
                           ardent fan bases without borders [8]. Thus, “social media” plays a key role in the success
                           of K-pop.
                                When the internet helped K-pop spread not only in Korea but overseas, Korean enter-
                           tainment companies began to look beyond the small domestic music market and take the
                           international market into consideration. Accordingly, some companies recruited bilingual
                           speakers or foreigners for K-pop groups [9]. Compared to the past, more companies are
                           attempting to hold performances in other countries or collaborate with well-known artists
                           from other countries. In short, internet media provided opportunities to learn about new
                           markets and had a great impact on diversifying K-pop [10]. Thus, “casting” plays a key
                           role in the success of K-pop.
                                To quickly produce ﬂawless songs in the K-pop market of idol music, which has a
                           short cycle of popularity, the music industry established a well-organized and coordinated
                           production system that engages experts from each ﬁeld for music production. Music was
                           also merchandized by entertainment companies when the factory-style division of labor was
                           applied as the method of producing high quality music efﬁciently and continuously [11].
                           To reﬂect the global trend, the companies collaborated on many songs with producers
                           from other countries. In dance music that highlights the acoustics, the role of a composer
                           was expanded to the producer who takes charge of the acoustics. In short, particular
                           producers and artists continued to work together and created series of hits. This provided
                           the opportunity for them to understand the attributes and the ideas of one another in a
                           continuing relationship and improve the efﬁciency of music production and the authenticity
                           of music [5].
                                In this manner, the trendy music style familiar to international audiences became
                           more approachable through trans-country genre integration, frequent use of English lyrics,
                           reﬂection of the newest global trends, and sophisticated acoustics [12]. Hook songs that
                           repeat the motifs are very impressionable and easy to remember and sing along with even
                           for listeners who do not know the Korean language, while establishing the identity of
                           the artists with a clear concept [13]. The refreshing and robust lyrics not only invoked
                           emotional empathy from international fans but also reﬂected the Korean sentiment [14].
                           The worldwide success of K-pop is not coincidental; it is a result of various attempts at
                           international launching and continual improvement by Korean music producers. Despite
                           the criticism that K-pop songs are very much alike in music style, K-pop has generated
                           a new distinctive feature in the competitive music market through experimental music,
                           integrating diverse genres using a unique concept [15]. Thus, “producing” plays a key role
                           in the success of K-pop.
                                In addition, the music industry, which used to be sub-divided into different domains
                           such as scouting, producing, recording, and managing, was radically transformed by the
                           development of hardware and the advent of the internet. The development of hardware
                           helped mass-produce songs and records more quickly and easily while the internet brought
                           about a fundamental change in marketing and promotion [16]. Using the internet, entertain-
                           ment companies could communicate with the public and learn in depth what the market
                           desires in terms of singers and bands. The entertainment companies directly recruited
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                           3 of 30


                           promising trainees as needed and provided training programs [13]. To maximize the net
                           worth of the singers or the groups that they had been training, entertainment companies
                           with bargaining power managed the performance schedule. In short, specialties of the
                           music industry have become integrated [17]. Thus, “producers and promotion” plays a key
                           role in the success of K-pop.
                                Consumers want K-pop content that they can relate to. Therefore, it is necessary
                           to consider whether K-pop contains content that demonstrates an understanding of and
                           relates to the lives of consumers worldwide [18]. Seeking pure aesthetics is one of the
                           main reasons for creative work. An important lesson here is that consumers value relatable
                           content much more than aesthetics that are far from reality [19]. Meanwhile, it is crucial
                           to pay attention to the fans or the consumers of K-pop and strive to take their feedback to
                           heart. Unlike the past, “domineering stars” no longer receive a warm welcome. Consumers
                           want artists who can be in touch with them from their own perspective. In short, it is
                           necessary to obtain universal popularity that transverses nationalities [20,21].
                                K-pop is also a comprehensive art. It is cultural merchandise packaged with diverse
                           factors rather than one simple song sung by a singer. The state-of-the-art lyrics, arrange-
                           ment, and colorful performance were consistent with the “era of enjoying music visually”
                           beyond just listening when the ﬁeld of cultural production actively integrated with infor-
                           mation technology [9]. In particular, K-pop came to have a strong brand image in the world
                           market of pop culture as the inﬁnitely expandable information technology was combined
                           with the charm of idols with outstanding vocals and extraordinary choreography [12].
                                Strictly speaking, the popularity of K-pop idol groups in the international market, includ-
                           ing the USA, was credited to the regimented performances and musical melodies that allowed
                           a successful entry to the global market of pop music [9,12]. Unlike K-pop with its lively dance
                           performances, music genres such as sentimental ballads that deal with emotions must be sung
                           in the language of the audience in order to appeal to them. However, by naturally exposing
                           music consumers to the songs in their language, it is possible to expand the soft power of
                           K-pop [22]. Approximately 75% of the market for K-pop merchandise is the international
                           music market. This is the reason for producing K-pop in English and local languages [23].
                           Thus, “content” plays a key role in the success of K-pop.
                                Nevertheless, what matters the most is the “skills” development as mentioned earlier.
                           The reason for the worldwide adoration of Hallyu (the Korean wave) contents such as
                           K-pop, dramas, and movies are the performers’ outstanding artistic skills. The artists
                           excel in singing, acting, telling stories, and ﬁlming. Authenticity and communication are
                           based on the foundation of such skills [17]. In short, entertainment companies make a
                           long-term investment to produce the best entertainers and bear the burden of investing
                           huge amounts of time and money for training [24]. Thus, “training” plays a key role in the
                           success of K-pop.
                                The performance and entertainment business has turned its attention to various online
                           platforms such as YouTube [25]. During the COVID-19 pandemic, which mandates “social
                           distancing,” online platforms became the second-best option to live concerts. BTS’s online
                           concert, “Bang Bang Con” is a well-known example [26]. In line with the non-contact
                           mandate, “Bang Bang Con” tied together the conventional concert, fan interaction, and
                           live performance. In April 2020, Big Hit Entertainment also hosted a BTS concert and
                           streamed it online. During this event, over 750,000 fans from 107 countries went online
                           simultaneously, generating a minimum of 21.7 billion KRW from online ticket sales [26].
                                Along with the enhancement in national image and brand image, K-pop’s overseas
                           expansion had a ripple effect by increasing attraction to various Korean industries including
                           merchandise, health care, tourism, Hangul, foods, and fashion [27]. It is not difﬁcult to ﬁnd
                           research reports indicating that many Korean industries beneﬁted from K-pop’s overseas
                           expansion and the second Korean Wave (or Hallyu). Thus, K-pop’s continuous expansion
                           in the overseas market has had a positive effect not only on the development of the Korean
                           music industry but also on the national economy, which needed a new driving force for
                           growth [17,28,29].
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                           4 of 30


                                As mentioned earlier, global fans of K-pop actively used social media and expedited
                           the spread of K-pop [17,30,31]. Thus, the global audience for K-pop shifted from passive
                           consumers to proactive participants. Furthermore, there was interactive communication
                           and information sharing between K-pop idols and their fans on social network service
                           (SNS). In addition, the inﬂuence of new media such as YouTube and SNS changed the
                           paradigm  of K-pop distribution and encouraged active participation of fans [17,30,31].
                           Global fans of K-pop naturally manifested SNS citizenship behavior of sharing information
                           on SNS. Thus, the success factors of K-pop exert a great impact on the national image, SNS
                           citizenship behavior, and tourist behavioral intention.
                                Previous studies have limitations in that they did not identify the diverse success
                           factors of K-pop and examine the causal relationship of them with national image and SNS
                           citizenship behavior from multiple perspectives. In addition, they failed to empirically
                           examine whether national image and SNS citizenship behavior can induce or improve
                           tourist behavioral intention. Therefore, this study aims to identify the success factors of
                           K-pop and empirically examine whether these factors can exert a positive effect on national
                           image and SNS citizenship behavior, and ultimately on tourist behavioral intention. To this
                           end, the following research questions are proposed.
                                Research Questions:
                           RQ1: How does the success factor of K-pop affect SNS citizenship behavior?
                           RQ2: How  does national image affect SNS citizenship behavior and tourist behavioral
                                intention?
                           RQ3: How does SNS citizenship behavior affect tourist behavioral intention?
                           RQ4: Is there a mediating effect of national image and SNS citizenship behavior in the
                                relationship between the success factors of K-pop and tourist behavioral intention?

                           2. Literature Review
                           2.1. Base Theories
                                K-pop refers to the trendy music gaining popularity in South Korea [23,32]. As Korean
                           pop music became popular in other countries, the term K-pop was widely used outside
                           the country [23,32]. The success of K-pop can be summed up as a producer’s or entertain-
                           ment company’s organized production process entailing “casting/training/producing/
                           promoting.” These factors laid the foundation for meticulous preparation for entering
                           the international market [33]. In this process, the use of social media such as YouTube,
                           Facebook, and Twitter played a role in saving time and money for launching overseas [33].
                           In other words, social media had a key role in the success of K-pop. Therefore, based on the
                           above facts, this study aims to analyze the success factors of K-pop from the perspective of
                           production, consumption, and distribution. In addition, we examine the base theories in
                           depth in the following sections.

                           2.2. Service Quality Model
                                The service quality (SERVQUAL) model is most widely accepted as a tool for measur-
                           ing service quality. Service is characterized by intangibility, heterogeneity, inseparability,
                           and perishability. To measure service quality, the SERVQUAL model was suggested as a
                           way of analyzing the congruence between consumers’ expectations and perceptions [34–36].
                           The SERVQUAL model presents the following ﬁve critical dimensions to consider when
                           evaluating a service for general customers or users of various types of services: (1) Tangibil-
                           ity refers to physical facilities (e.g., building, store, interior), equipment, and the appearance
                           of service personnel; (2) Reliability refers to the ability to perform the promised service
                           dependably and accurately; (3) Responsiveness refers to the service personnel’s ability
                           and willingness to help customers and provide prompt service; (4) Assurance refers to the
                           knowledge and courtesy of employees and their ability to convey trust and conﬁdence; and
                           (5) Empathy refers to caring and individualized attention to each customer [37–39]. Studies
                           that applied the SERVQUAL model are summarized in Table 1.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                                                                                     5 of 30

                               Table 1. Examples of applying the SERVQUAL model.

                                                                                    Responsiveness               Assurance                                           Researcher
       Service Field              Tangibility                Reliability                                                                    Empathy                   (Source)
                                                                                  Swiftness in baggage
                                                                                                                                       Understanding and
                               Airplanes, ticketing                              handling and ticketing,       Trustable names,
          Airlines                                     Departing and arriving                                   safety records,       caring for individuals’      Rezaei et al. [40]
                               counters, uniforms             on time             and promptness upon                                                               Shah et al. [41]
                                                                                                            competent employees          particular needs
                                                                                request for inﬂight service
                                                                                                                                      Treating patients with
                                                        Seeing patients at the     Attitude of carefully     Expertise and skills,
                            Buildings, waiting rooms,                                                                                    respect and care,
      Medical service          examination rooms,      scheduled time, giving     listening to customers   validated qualiﬁcations,                                  Ali et al. [42]
                                                                                                                                      remembering previous          Lee & Kim [43]
                               medical equipment         accurate diagnosis     (patients), short wait time  fame and reputation
                                                                                                                                         health problems
                                                                                                                                        Remembering the
                             Repair facilities, waiting Fixing the problem and   Accessibility, short wait                              customer’s names,         Famiyeh et al. [44]
        Auto repair                                                                                            Mechanics with          previous issues, and
                                rooms, uniforms,       getting it done within a   time, prompt response       expert knowledge                                      Jain et al. [45]
                                repair equipment        promised time frame            to requests                                        understanding           James & James [46]
                                                                                                                                           preferences

                                                                                 Responding quickly and                                 Understanding the
                            Ofﬁce, business proposal, Proposing and executing                              Validated qualiﬁcations,                               Durdyev et al. [47]
       Construction                                                                accommodating the         reputation, expertise,  customer and the speciﬁc
                             invoice, employee attire  the plans within budget   changes in needs in the          and skills                                   Prakash & Phadtare [48]
                                                                                   construction process                               needs of the customer
                                                                                                                                       Understanding and
                                                        Making proposals and
                                                                                  Travel-related product        Finding and            considering various      Gholipour Soleimani &
                                  Ofﬁce, travel        reservations tailored to
       Travel agency             agency website                                        reservation,          recommending local       situations (e.g., family    Einolahzadeh [49]
                                                          customer’s needs           visa processing                                                             Mohtasham et al. [50]
                                                            and budgets                                      tourist destinations       trip, business trip,
                                                                                                                                           friendship)
                                                                                                            Well-organized process
                                                                                  Real-time delivery or
                                                       Producing albums and                                 and system related to
                               Discovering talent                                prompt communication              K-pop              Optimizing a variety of        Chang [51]
                                                         music videos with         with fans regarding      production(producer),     contents and obtaining
          K-pop             through street auditions,  perfection/reliability for                                                                                  Choi & Park [52]
                                  events, and             the global market       assorted information    and professional trainings     popularity and               Kim [53]
                                festivals (casting)                             about K-pop through SNS    for talented trainees with  empathy (contents)           Oh & Lee [33]
                                                       (producing/promotion)         (social media)          the ability to convey
                                                                                                             conﬁdence (training)
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                           6 of 30

                                In this study, we examined the success factors of K-pop within the ﬁve dimensions of
                           the SERVQUAL model. The success factors of K-pop were re-labeled in accordance with
                           the purpose of this study: (1) Tangibility factor of K-pop encompasses scouting efforts to
                           discover the talents through street auditions, events, and festivals. This was re-labeled as
                           “casting” for this study; (2) Reliability factor encompasses the effort to produce albums
                           and music videos with perfection/reliability for the global market. This was re-labeled as
                           “producing/promotion”; (3) Responsiveness factor encompasses the real-time delivery or
                           prompt communication with the fans through SNS regarding assorted information about
                           K-pop. This was re-labeled as “social media”; (4) Assurance factor encompasses the well-
                           organized process and system related to K-pop production and training for talented trainees
                           with the ability to convey conﬁdence. This was re-labeled as “producers” and “training”;
                           and (5) Empathy factor encompasses the attributes of K-pop that optimize a variety of
                           contents and generate popularity and empathy. This was re-labeled as “contents” [33].
                           When examining the above-mentioned factors, the ‘SERVQUAL model’ can be applied as
                           the base theory for analyzing the success factors of K-pop.

                           2.3. Image Theory
                                Image theory by [54] was developed as an alternative to decision making theory,
                           which was based on the expected utility theory. Image theory focuses more on the decision-
                           making process, which was not expounded by the expected utility theory [54]. Even though
                           behavioral decision approaches centered on heuristics and biases undoubtedly show that
                           actual decision-making deviates from the normative decision-making model, they do not
                           encompass the entire cognitive process of decision-making [55].
                                To overcome these limitations, the image theory provides an ideal model for analyzing
                           the decision-making process for individuals or organizations in situations that require
                           social, ethical, or moral considerations from a behavioral point of view [56,57]. The image
                           theory disregards the normative decision model and holds that decision making is guided
                           by the values and beliefs of individuals or groups who make decisions. Therefore, decision-
                           makers choose their behavioral path for achieving goals within the boundary of their values
                           and beliefs [56,57].
                                The image theory is divided into two components: a component describing personal
                           decision making and a component describing organizational decision making. Regardless
                           of the unit of analysis, both components use framing, a process to recognize a problem
                           prior to making decisions [58]. For framing, decision makers use three types of image:
                           value image, trajectory image, and strategic image [59,60]. As such, the image theory
                           hypothesizes that decision makers utilize three different schematic knowledge structures,
                           namely images, to organize their thinking in performing decision-making tasks [59,60].
                           (1)  The value image is the decision-maker’s principle, and it contains the concepts that define
                                what is right, such as beliefs, values, moral standards, ethics, and norms. For example,
                                “Let’s fulfill the social responsibility” is a value image (value/standard/principle). Such
                                a principle works as a criterion for judging the appropriateness of the decision making
                                with regard to designing and choosing the alternative goals and plans that are likely
                                to be selected [59,60].
                           (2)  The trajectory image refers to the goal agenda describing the future state that a
                                decision-maker wishes to achieve. For example, “Let’s double the productivity” is a
                                trajectory image. Based on the trajectory image, decisions are made on which behavior
                                is appropriate and which is not [59,60].
                           (3)  The strategic image comprises different plans selected for achieving a goal, a strat-
                                egy for achieving the plan, and a prediction of the outcome of the strategy. Plan-
                                ning is an abstract process that entails a series of behaviors ranging from goal
                                setting to goal achievement. Strategy refers to the speciﬁc and practical behav-
                                iors required by the plan. Prediction means forecasting future outcomes that will
                                take place upon selecting a certain plan and strategy [59,60]. This entails plan-
                                ning/implementation/enforcement of actions.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                                              7 of 30


                                           To summarize the above descriptions, the image theory can be applied as a base theory
                                     for analyzing the path for the success factors of K-pop as follows: the success factors of
                                     K-pop   →   national image/SNS citizenship behavior              →  tourist behavioral intention. The
                                     application or implementation of the decision-making frame in the ‘image theory’ can be
                                     speciﬁed as in Table 2.

                                     Table 2. Decision-making frame in image theory (application/implementation).

         Image                                                                 Description                                      Researcher
                                Variables                                                                                        (Source)

                                                  •     Degree of systematic processes                                          Chang [51]
                               Producers                and systematization related to     value/standard/principle           Choi & Park [52]
                                                        K-pop production                                                         Kim [53]

                                                                                                                                Chang [51]
                                                  •     Degree of various efforts to
                                 Casting                                                   value/standard/principle           Choi & Park [52]
                                                        discover K-pop talent                                                    Kim [53]
                                                                                                                                 Kim [61]

                                                  •     Degree of comprehensive
                                Training                training to develop                value/standard/principle             Chang [51]
                                                        K-pop talent

                                                  •     Degree of production of
      Value image                                       high-quality albums and wide
                               Producing/               promotions suited for the
                               promotion                                                   value/standard/principle             Chang [51]
                                                        global market in relation
                                                        to K-pop

                                                  •     Degree to which real-time
                                                                                                                              An & Jeong [62]
                                 Social                 information on various K-pop
                                 media                  contents is provided or            value/standard/principle             Chang [51]
                                                        communicated through SNS                                              Cho & Sim [63]

                                                  •     Degree of additional
                                                        originality and efforts to                                              Chang [51]
                                Contents                secure popular appeal after        value/standard/principle         Lee, Kim, & Oh [64]
                                                        optimizing a variety of                                               Wen & Cha [65]
                                                        K-pop contents

                                                                         ↓

                                                  •     Level of economic and cultural
                                                        inﬂuence in the international
                             National image             society and competitiveness of            goal agenda                  Choi et al. [66]
                                                        Korea, the source of K-pop
    Trajectory image
                                                  •     Degree to which good
                             SNS citizenship            information or material
                                                                                                  goal agenda                  Kim et al. [67]
                                behavior                related to K-pop is produced
                                                        and rapidly shared on SNS

                                                                         ↓

                            Tourist behavioral    •     Degree of desire or plans to                                           Choi et al. [66]
     Strategic image                                    actually travel to Korea       planning/implementation/enforcement    Kwak et al. [28]
                                intention                                                                                     Meng et al. [68]

                                     2.4. Theory of Planned Behavior
                                           The theory of planned behavior explains human behavior and intention as a com-
                                     bination of three core components: attitude, subjective norms, and perceived behavioral
                                     control [69–71]. These three core components shape a person’s intention, and behavior is
                                     determined by the interaction between the intention and the three components. In this
                                     theory, intention is the willingness to act on a certain behavior. It is the key factor that
                                     motivates behavior [69–71].
                                           The theory of planned behavior was an expanded version of the theory of reasoned
                                     action. The traditional theory of reasoned action described human behavior with only
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                           8 of 30


                           two variables: attitude and subjective norms. This theory was widely applied in accounting
                           for human behaviors including consumer attitude [72–74]. Nonetheless, in order for an
                           actor to carry out a certain action, it is crucial to ﬁrst understand whether he or she has
                           the ability or the resources to do it. This is an important determinant for a behavior. The
                           traditional theory did not fully take this into consideration, and thus received criticism
                           that it lacked predictive power. To overcome this limitation, Ajzen developed the theory of
                           planned behavior by adding to the previous theory the perception of controlling factors
                           that limit human behavior [72–74].
                                The core components in the theory of planned behavior are attitude, subjective norms,
                           and perceived behavioral control. The speciﬁcs are as follows: (1) “Attitude” refers to
                           the actor’s approval or disapproval toward a certain behavior. In other words, attitude
                           is formed based on the psychological interaction between two variables: whether or
                           not a certain action brings about a positive (or negative) outcome and how much the
                           actor values the outcome [69,75–77]; (2) “Subjective norms” refer to the psychological
                           pressure that an actor feels with regard to observing the social norms. In other words,
                           they are normative beliefs about how much the reference individuals or groups who are
                           signiﬁcant to the actor support or approve of the particular behavior. In addition, how
                           important the actor thinks the reference group’s expectation is plays a role in shaping the
                           behavior [69,75–77]; and (3) “Perceived behavioral control” pertains to the difﬁculty or
                           ease of performing a particular action. In other words, behavior is explained as a result
                           of interaction between how much access the actor believes he or she has to the necessary
                           resources and opportunities to perform the behavior and how much the actor values them.
                           Because of this component, the theory of planned behavior is deemed to be one of the most
                           valid theories ever developed to account for human behaviors and intentions [69,75–77].
                           In addition, these three components have direct correlations with behavioral intention.
                           Further, behavioral intention mediates for certain behaviors [69,75].
                                The following modiﬁcations were made to the theory of planned behavior in this
                           study: (1) We re-labeled “attitude” as national image. That is, the attitude regarding K-pop
                           can be seen as the national image of Korea perceived by global viewers (competitiveness
                           of Korea—the origin of K-pop—and the level of economic and cultural inﬂuence in the
                           international community). In addition, it includes how consistently the viewers behave
                           toward Korea, either favorably or unfavorably; (2) “Subjective norm” was re-labeled as SNS
                           citizenship behavior. That is, the subjective norm of K-pop refers to a person’s perception
                           that most of their signiﬁcant others support a certain behavior (SNS citizenship behavior).
                           It also includes the tendency to produce positive information or data about K-pop, and
                           for the majority to agree/support/understand what they instantly share on SNS; and
                           (3) We re-labeled “behavioral intention” as tourist behavioral intention. That is, behavioral
                           intention of K-pop refers to people’s evaluation (thinking or planning to travel to South
                           Korea in person). This includes the behavioral intention to travel to Korea even if it means
                           putting up with inconveniences such as expenses/cultural differences/language barri-
                           ers/trafﬁc/distance. Therefore, to sum up the above descriptions, the ‘theory of planned
                           behavior’ can be applied as a base theory for analyzing the path for the success factors of
                           K-pop (image + citizenship behavior + behavioral intention) as follows: the success factors
                           of K-pop →  national image/SNS citizenship behavior → tourist behavioral intention.

                           2.5. Success Factors of K-Pop
                                This study reviews previous studies about success factors of K-pop and summarizes
                           them in Table 3. First, producers, casting, training, and producing/promotion were grouped
                           together and categorized as the “production system.” Second, social media and contents
                           were categorized as “social media/contents”.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                                              9 of 30


                                     Table 3. Success factors of K-pop.

    Categorization and                                                        Description                                     Researcher
      Classiﬁcation             Variables                                                                                       (Source)

                                                   •    Entertainment companies meticulously preparing to enter the
                                                        global market by systematizing the entire production process of
                                                        “casting-training-producing-promotion”
                                                   •    Entertainment companies meticulously preparing to enter the            Fuhr [78]
                                Producers               global market by systematizing their production processes from       Lee et al. [79]
                                                        a long-term perspective                                                 Oh [80]
                                                                                                                            Shin & Kim [81]
                                                   •    The scouting method of selecting a small number of trainees
                                                        among the multitudes of intensively trained candidates, which is
                                                        deemed a differentiating competitive edge, unique to Korea

                                                   •    Concentrating on discovering raw talent
                                                   •    Devoting all energy in discovering talent believing that scouting
                                 Casting                a good raw gemstone is “half-success”                               Shin & Kim [81]
                                                   •    Actively searching for global talents through overseas auditions

                                                   •    Training the best entertainers through long-term investment
                                                   •    Entertainment companies performing the role of strong
    Production system                                   gatekeepers, training only the best of the numerous gemstones
                                 Training               into idols and stars                                                    Oh [80]
                                                   •    Entertainment companies risking long-term and large-scale
                                                        investments for such training

                                                   Producing factors:
                                                   •    Global sourcing of creative work
                                                   •    Maximizing the level of perfection by engaging global experts in       Fuhr [78]
                                                        each creative ﬁeld                                                   Lee et al. [79]
                                                   •    Dividing labor in the production stage by engaging experts of
                                                        various nationalities and from varying ﬁelds
                                Producing/
                                Promotion          Promotion factors:
                                                   •    Utilizing the network of local partners
                                                   •    Minimizing the uncertainty and risk of global expansion through
                                                        partnerships with local companies, keeping in mind global              Fuhr [78]
                                                        launching from an early planning stage                               Lee et al. [79]
                                                   •    Overcoming cultural barriers in a short period of time by
                                                        releasing a localized album tailored to local markets

                                                   •    Saving cost and time in the process of global expansion by social
                                                        media channels such as YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter                  Jung [82]
                                                   •    Saving cost and time necessary for global expansion, owing to          Jung [83]
                                                        the contagious nature of the platforms, where word-of-mouth
                               Social media                                                                                    Jung [84]
                                                        travels fast                                                     Marinescu & Balica [85]
                                                   •    Entertainment companies recognizing social media as a key            Min et al. [86]
                                                        platform for K-pop consumption; they actively use social media         Sung [87]
                                                        platforms as a distribution channel and produce suitable content
  Social media/contents
                                                   •    K-pop idols constantly captivating global consumers by
                                                        transforming themselves, based on their competitiveness in
                                                        vocals, choreography, and visuals
                                                   •    Obtaining universal popularity that transcends nationalities by   Doré & Pugsley [88]
                                                        fusing Western pop style with easy melodies suited for                  Kim [14]
                                 Contents               Eastern sentiment                                                    Oh & Lee [89]
                                                   •    Providing a splashy spectacle by including a regimented group       Parc, Messerlin,
                                                        dance and a point dance                                               & Moon [90]
                                                   •    Constantly transforming through sensational fashion and styles
                                                        for new releases
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          10 of 30


                           2.6. National Image
                                National image has been researched in diverse ﬁelds of study. It is a cognitive repre-
                           sentation that a person holds of a given country, and it can be viewed as a level of trust in
                           the country [91]. It is also deﬁned as collective expressions of perceptions and judgments
                           of a country by overseas citizens [92]. As the market competition became intensiﬁed due to
                           globalization, the concept of national image has become more important, and it is often
                           used as a signiﬁcant factor in consumer behavior studies [93–95].
                                Meanwhile, national image cannot be seen as an absolute and objective factor because
                           it varies depending on a person’s subjective perception. That is, the evaluator’s emotional
                           and subjective attitude has a great inﬂuence [92,96]. However, consumers who have little
                           or no background knowledge about a certain product have a strong tendency to evaluate
                           products based on the national image of the country of origin. In addition, if the image of
                           a country is positive, people also view companies from the country positively [94,97,98].
                           In this study, we deﬁne “national image” as competitiveness and level of economic and
                           cultural inﬂuence that Korea (the origin country of K-pop) has in the global community.

                           2.7. SNS Citizenship Behavior
                                SNS citizenship behavior is a concept that applies organizational citizenship behavior
                           to SNS [67,99]. Organizational citizenship behavior is a voluntary behavior that promotes
                           the organization’s efﬁciency regardless of ofﬁcial incentives from the organization, such as
                           reacting in a timely fashion, assisting colleagues, and avoiding confrontations [100].
                                Today, there is online community citizenship behavior similar to SNS citizenship
                           behavior. Online community refers to the group of people who interact online around their
                           shared interest. However, SNS differs from online community in that individual users
                           form a separate network [101]. Previous studies have deﬁned SNS citizenship behavior
                           as pro-social and responsible behavior that members of SNS voluntarily perform outside
                           their own roles [67,99]. In this study, we deﬁne “SNS citizenship behavior” as the level of
                           generating good information or data about K-pop and sharing it on SNS in a timely manner.

                           2.8. Tourist Behavioral Intention
                                In the tourism industry, behavioral intention is used in reference to the intention to
                           visit a tourist site or revisit a certain place [102,103]. Here, behavioral intention is a plan to
                           achieve a particular goal, and it is a main predictor of consumer behavior. In other words,
                           it can be said to be consumers’ willingness or belief to carry out their future plan after they
                           form an opinion about a certain product or service [104,105].
                                Tourist behavioral intention is a person’s intention to visit a certain place, and it is the
                           probability of carrying out the plan or belief. In other words, a person’s decision to visit
                           a tourist site based on a personal belief leads to an actual visit [17,28,66]. As such, tourist
                           behavioral intention in the tourism industry is the decision made based on the willingness
                           to visit a particular place. Therefore, the main goal of tourist site marketing is to encourage
                           consumers to set a tourist behavioral intention [17,28,66]. In this study, we deﬁne “tourist
                           behavioral intention” as a thought or plan to travel to Korea in person.

                           2.9. Relationship between Key Variables
                                We specify the relationship between the key variables, as shown in Table 4. Accord-
                           ingly, we examined previous studies.
Sustainability  2022,  14, 3200                                                                                                                                       11 of 30


                                            Table 4.   Relationship between the key variables (previous studies).

                                                                                                                                                          Researcher
          Variables               Path             Variables                                          Description
                                                                                                                                                           (Source)

                                                                         •      Attributes of K-pop (e.g., topic and content, visual and
                                                                                acoustic effects, and cultural interest) have a positive (+)           Suh & Yang [106]
                                                                                effect on national image

                                                                         •      K-pop, movies, and dramas have a positive (+) effect on
                                                                                national image                                                             Lee [107]

                                                                         •      K-pop image has a positive (+) effect on national image                 Wen & Cha [65]

                                                                         •      In terms of K-pop production, the degree of structured
                                                                                processing and systematization has a positive (+) effect on                Kim [108]
                                                                                national image (producers)

   Success factors of K-pop        →            National image           •      In terms of casting, discovering talents who are competent,
                                                                                charming, and highly attractive has a positive (+) effect on       Han, Chen, & Rhee [109]
                                                                                national image (casting)

                                                                         •      In training the talents into K-pop stars, the trainer’s image
                                                                                has a positive (+) effect on the self-image of the                         Kim [110]
                                                                                trainees (training)

                                                                         •      Diverse marketing and promotion for K-pop has a positive
                                                                                (+) effect on national image (producing/promotion)                     Jang & Jung [111]

                                                                         •      Social media has a positive (+) effect on national image
                                                                                (social media)                                                          Li & Park [112]

                                                                         •      Optimized K-pop contents have a positive (+) effect on
                                                                                national image (contents)                                             Moon & Park [113]

                                                                         •      Research on “success factors of K-pop and effective strategy
                                                                                for global launch” was conducted
                                                                         •      Two contributing factors of K-pop’s successful global launch
                                                                                were found:  
1 Competitiveness of K-pop contents (contents)
                                                                                and 
2  Social media strategy
                                                                         •      Three competitive edges of K-pop contents were found:
                                                                                
1 Strategy to localize globally (producing/promotion),
                                                                                
2 Idol training system (casting), and 
3 Competitiveness of
                                                                                                                                                           Kim [31]
                                                                                K-pop stars (training)
                                                                         •      The greatest charm of K-pop is the performance of idol
                                                                                groups (contents)
                                                                         •      The most effective strategy of K-pop promotion is social
                                                                                media (social media)
                                                                         •      Voluntary citizenship behavior of SNS users was reported to
                                                                                be a success factor of K-pop, as the information was shared
                                                                                in real time with global fans

   Success factors of K-pop        →        SNS citizenship behavior
                                                                         •      Research on “contributing factors of K-pop’s global spread”
                                                                                was conducted
                                                                         •      Four contributing factors of K-pop’s global spread were
                                                                                identiﬁed: 
1 Globalization strategy (targeting the global
                                                                                market), 
2 Evolution of management system (advent of
                                                                                corporate type entertainment companies, structured
                                                                                organization/specialization), 
3  Training system (of
                                                                                producing stars through training, open audition programs of
                                                                                entertainment companies/broadcasting companies), and       
4
                                                                                Globalization of production (collaboration on production                    Jun [30]
                                                                                with overseas experts)
                                                                         •      Three contributing factors of K-pop contents’ global spread
                                                                                were found:  
1 Idol singers’ authentic lyrics and story-telling
                                                                                albums (empathy formation),    
2 Visual elements, such as
                                                                                singing and dancing (performance), and    
3 Personas of idol
                                                                                singers (e.g., appearance and talent)
                                                                         •      SNS citizenship behavior was reported as a success factor of
                                                                                K-pop’s global spread, as K-pop global fans naturally shared
                                                                                the information on SNS
Sustainability  2022,  14, 3200                                                                                                                                       12 of 30


                                            Table 4.   Cont.

                                                                                                                                                          Researcher
          Variables               Path             Variables                                          Description
                                                                                                                                                           (Source)

                                                                         •      Brand image perceived by consumers has a statistically              Nyadzayo, Matanda, &
                                                                                signiﬁcant correlation with brand citizenship behavior                    Ewing [114]
                                                                                                                                                         Hoang [115]
        National image             →        SNS citizenship behavior
                                                                         •      Company’s image perceived by customers has a statistically
                                                                                signiﬁcant correlation with customers’ citizenship behavior            Ahn & Park [116]

                                                                                                                                                    Alvarez & Campo [117]
                                                                         •      National image has a positive (+) effect on behavioral and          Kim, Kim, & Lee [118]
                                                                                purchase intentions                                                Kim, Kwon, & Bae [119]
                                                                                                                                                    Suh & Yang (2012) [106]
        National image             →           Tourist behavioral
                                                    intention            •      Positive attitude toward Hallyu (Korean Wave) has a positive
                                                                                (+) effect on national image                                        Kim, Kim, & Choi [120]
                                                                         •      Consequently, national image has a positive (+) effect on              Lee & Kim [121]
                                                                                                                                                     Lee & Lockshin [122]
                                                                                tourist behavioral intention

                                                                         •      Consumers’ citizenship behavior has a positive (+) effect on
                                                                                consumer satisfaction and commitment
                                                                         •      In their turn, consumer satisfaction and customer                   Kim, Kim, & Cha [123]
                                                                                commitment have a positive (+) effect on revisit intention
   SNS citizenship behavior        →           Tourist behavioral
                                                    intention
                                                                         •      Civic consciousness, such as volunteering activity, meeting
                                                                                attendance, and tolerance of inconvenience, has a positive (+)        Kwon & Song [124]
                                                                                effect on behavioral intention

                                            2.10. Hypotheses
                                                   We established the following hypotheses based on the relationships between the key
                                            variables in Table 4 (previous studies).
                                            Hypotheses:
                                            Production system

                                            Hypothesis 1a (H1a).            Producers exert a positive (+) effect on national image.

                                            Hypothesis 1b (H1b).             Casting exerts a positive (+) effect on national image.

                                            Hypothesis 1c (H1c).            Training exerts a positive (+) effect on national image.

                                            Hypothesis 1d (H1d).             Producing/promotion exerts a positive (+) effect on national image.

                                            Social media/contents

                                            Hypothesis 2a (H2a).            Social media exerts a positive (+) effect on national image.

                                            Hypothesis 2b (H2b).             Contents exert a positive (+) effect on national image.

                                            Production system

                                            Hypothesis 3a (H3a).            Producers exert a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior.

                                            Hypothesis 3b (H3b).             Casting exerts a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior.

                                            Hypothesis 3c (H3c).            Training exerts a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior.

                                            Hypothesis 3d (H3d).             Producing/promotion exerts a positive (+) effect on SNS                 citizenship behavior.

                                            Social media/contents
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                          13 of 31 
 

                           Social media/contents 

                           Hypothesis 4a (H4a). Social media exerts a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior. 
     Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                               13 of 30

                           Hypothesis 4b (H4b). Contents exert a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior. 
                             Hypothesis 4a (H4a). Social media exerts a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior.
                           Hypothesis 5 (H5). National image exerts a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior. 
                             Hypothesis 4b (H4b). Contents exert a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior.
                           Hypothesis 6 (H6). National image exerts a positive (+) effect on tourist behavioral intention. 
                             Hypothesis 5 (H5). National image exerts a positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior.
                           Hypothesis 7 (H7). SNS citizenship behavior exerts a positive (+) effect on tourist behavioral 
                           intention.Hypothesis 6 (H6). National image exerts a positive (+) effect on tourist behavioral intention.

                             Hypothesis 7 (H7). SNS citizenship behavior exerts a positive (+) effect on tourist behavioral intention.
                           3. Methods 
                           3.1.3. Research Methods Model 
                             3.1.We Research designed Model our research model based on theoretical concepts and the extant liter-
                           ature onWe our designed main  ourvariables, research as model discussed based on above theoretical (see  conceptsFigure 1). and As the Figure extant  literature1 shows, our 
                           studyon our analyzes main variables,  empirically as discussed the  effects above  of  (see the Figure K-pop 1 ). success As Figure  factors 1 shows,  as  our listed study  on  South 
                             analyzes empirically the effects of the K-pop success factors as listed on South Korea’s
                           Korea’s national image and on global SNS citizenship behavior in the context of the three 
                             national image and on global SNS citizenship behavior in the context of the three theories
                           theoriesmentioned mentioned (SERVQUAL, (SERVQUAL, image theory, image and theory, theory and of planned theory behavior). of planned Ultimately, behavior). our Ulti-
                           mately,model our assesses model how assess SNSes citizenship how SNS behavior citizenship inﬂuences behavior national influences image and national how they image both  and 
                           howinﬂuence they both tourist influence behavioral tourist intention. behavioral intention. 


                                                                                                    

                           FigureFigure 1. Research 1. Research model. model. 

                           3.2.3.2. Variable Variable Measurements Measurements 
                               TableTable 5 5  encapsulates the the speciﬁc specific measurement measurement items items of each of variable each variable we surveyed. we surveyed. We  
                             based the survey categories and items on previous studies, which we then modiﬁed and
                           We based the survey categories and items on previous studies, which we then modified 
                             adapted according to our purpose. There are a total of 42 survey items for the variables,
                           andmeasured adapted on according a ﬁve-point to  Likertour purpose. type scale There (1 = Notare ata  all,total 5  =of Very 42 survey much). items for the varia-
                           bles, measured on a five-point Likert type scale (1 = Not at all, 5 = Very much). 
                               
Sustainability  2022,  14, 3200                                                                                                                                       14 of 30


                                            Table 5.   Survey items.

                                                                                                                                                            Researcher
                     Variables                          Operational Deﬁnition                               Measurement Item
                                                                                                                                                              (Source)
                                                                                        1. Systematization of production process
                                                                                        2. Preparation to enter the overseas market from a
                                                          Degree of systematic          long-term perspective                                                Chang [51]
                                                     processes and systematization
                                 Producers                                              3. Honing of skills from the planning stage to target the         Choi & Park [52]
                                                      related to K-pop production                                                                             Kim [53]
                                                                                        global market
                                                                                        4. Systematization of the entire production process
                                                                                        forming promotion
                                                                                        1. Focus of efforts on talent discovery
                                                                                        2. Selection of trainees through various channels,
                                                                                        including ofﬁcial auditions and the recommendations of               Chang [51]
                                                      Degree of various efforts to
                                  Casting                                               acquainted celebrities                                            Choi & Park [52]
                                                         discover K-pop talent                                                                                Kim [53]
                                                                                        3. Prioritization of talent and hidden potential in                   Kim [61]
                                                                                        evaluations
                                                                                        4. Active discovery of overseas talent through global
                                                                                        auditions
   Production system
                                                                                        1. Korean agencies performing the role of powerful
                                                                                        gatekeepers
                                                                                        2. Dedicated teams of experts in Korea providing training
                                                       Degree of comprehensive          focused on singing, dancing, English, etc.
                                  Training                 training to develop                                                                               Chang [51]
                                                                                        3. Harsh training of trainees in a continuous survival style
                                                              K-pop talent
                                                                                        4. Assigning roles such as singing, acting, and
                                                                                        choreography based on the members’ strongest talents
                                                                                        and combining them to create the best synergy
                                                                                        1. Maximizing the quality of K-pop albums by involving
                                                                                        the world’s premier experts in each creative ﬁeld
                                                        Degree of production of         2. Overcoming cultural barriers in a short time period by
                                                        high-quality albums and         releasing albums specialized for local markets
                            Producing/promotion       wide promotions suited for                                                                             Chang [51]
                                                                                        3. Optimizing lyrics, music videos, fashion, etc., for local
                                                      the global market in relation
                                                                to K-pop                cultures in album production
                                                                                        4. Wide utilization of K-pop recorded in the local
                                                                                        language for local dramas, movies, commercials, etc.
                                                                                        1. Use of social media such as YouTube, Facebook,
                                                                                        and Twitter
                                                                                        2. Effectively leveraging the infectious nature of social
                                                       Degree to which real-time
                                                                                        media that enables quick word-of-mouth for                        An & Jeong [62]
                                                     information on various K-pop
                                                                                        overseas expansion                                                   Chang [51]
                                Social media             contents is provided or
                                                                                                                                                          Cho & Sim [63]
                                                      communicated through SNS          3. Effectively sharing news about performances and
                                                                                        recent updates through social media
                                                                                        4. Expanding emotional interactions by directly
                                                                                        communicating with overseas fans via social media
          Social
     media/contents                                                                     1. Fusion of Western pop styles with easy melodies that
                                                                                        suit Eastern sentiments
                                                          Degree of additional          2. Securing universal mass appeal to gain popularity
                                                        originality and efforts to      across nationalities                                                 Chang [51]
                                  Contents            secure popular appeal after       3. Providing showy spectacles through highly                    Lee, Kim, & Oh [64]
                                                                                                                                                          Wen & Cha [65]
                                                         optimizing a variety of        synchronized choreography and point dances
                                                             K-pop contents
                                                                                        4. Constantly varying sensuous fashions and styles
                                                                                        whenever a new song is released
                                                                                        1. Korea’s national income and education level are high
                                                                                        2. Korea’s national conditions are stable
                                                                                        3. Korea’s level of technology is excellent
                                                         Level of economic and          4. Korea’s economic inﬂuence is large
                                                        cultural inﬂuence in the
                  National image                        international society and       5. Korean culture is open                                          Choi et al. [66]
                                                     competitiveness of Korea, the
                                                                                        6. Korean culture is appealing
                                                            source of K-pop
                                                                                        7. Korean culture is of a high standard
                                                                                        8. Korean culture is unique and preserves tradition
                                                                                        9. Korean culture has a long history and is likeable
Sustainability  2022,  14, 3200                                                                                                                                       15 of 30


                                            Table 5.   Cont.

                                                                                                                                                            Researcher
                     Variables                          Operational Deﬁnition                               Measurement Item
                                                                                                                                                              (Source)
                                                                                        1. Sharing and providing K-pop-related information to
                                                                                        people around me through SNS
                                                                                        2. Sharing positive opinions about K-pop-related
                                                                                        information to people around me through SNS
                                                         Degree to which good           3. Always contemplating how to share K-pop-related
                                                        information or material         information to people around me through SNS
             SNS citizenship behavior                                                                                                                      Kim et al. [67]
                                                      related to K-pop is produced      4. Extracting, processing, and sharing the core contents of
                                                       and rapidly shared on SNS        K-pop-related information with people around me
                                                                                        through SNS
                                                                                        5. Always contemplating whether K-pop-related
                                                                                        information can be helpful to people around me
                                                                                        through SNS
                                                                                        1. Will travel to Korea even if it is expensive
                                                                                        2. Will travel to Korea even if there are cultural
                                                      Degree of desire or plans to      differences and a language barrier                                 Choi et al. [66]
           Tourist behavioral intention                                                                                                                   Kwak et al. [28]
                                                        actually travel to Korea        3. Will travel to Korea even if transportation                    Meng et al. [68]
                                                                                        is inconvenient
                                                                                        4. Will travel to Korea even if it is far

                                            3.3. Respondents
                                                   The respondents are global viewers who have listened to K-pop on TV, radio, or the
                                            Internet at least once, watched K-pop videos on YouTube at least once, and searched for
                                            information related to K-pop on SNS at least once. We conducted two rounds of surveys
                                            from October 2019 to October 2020 through the global research agencies Entrust Survey
                                            (http://entrustsurvey.com, accessed on 22 January 2022) and Netpoint Enterprise Inc.
                                            (http://www.netpoint.co.kr/, accessed on 22 January 2022). The surveys were provided in
                                            English and French. The respondents are from eight countries: the Philippines, Singapore,
                                            Australia, the UK, France, the US, Canada, and South Africa. Our ﬁnal sample includes
                                            valid responses from             1247 participants. Table 6 presents the demographic statistics of
                                            the respondents.

                                            Table 6.   Demographic characteristics (N = 1247).

                                                                                        Item                                                 Frequency               %
                                                                                                             Male                                618               49.6
                                                            Gender                                          Female                               629               50.4
                                                                                                              20s                                308               24.7
                                                               Age                                            30s                                326               26.1
                                                                                                              40s                                311               24.9
                                                                                                              50s                                302               24.2
                                                                                                   High school graduate                          313               25.1
                                                                                                Technical college graduate                       276               22.1
                                                           Education                                  College graduate                           515               41.3
                                                                                                Graduate school graduate                         143               11.5
                                                                                                        Under $1000                              270               21.7
                                                                                                         $1000–$2000                             268               21.5
                                                  Monthly income (Mean)                                  $2001–$3000                             205               16.4
                                                                                                         $3001–$4000                             155               12.4
                                                                                                         $4001–$5000                             151               12.1
                                                                                                          over $5000                             198               15.9
                                                                                                         Philippines                             150               12.0
                                                                                                          Singapore                              156               12.5
                                                                                                          Australia                              161               12.9
                                                          Nationality                                         UK                                 150               12.0
                                                                                                            France                               170               13.6
                                                                                                              US                                 150               12.0
                                                                                                           Canada                                160               12.8
                                                                                                        South Africa                             150               12.0
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          16 of 30


                           3.4. Data Analysis
                                We used four statistical programs, SPSS, SmartPLS GSCA Pro, and JASP, for the
                           analysis. The procedure was as follows: ﬁrst, a frequency analysis to examine demographic
                           characteristics; second, a reliability analysis using Cronbach’s alpha to test the reliability of
                           the metrics; third, a factor analysis to test the validity of the metrics; fourth, a correlation
                           analysis to examine the closeness (i.e., correlation) of the variables; and ﬁfth, a regression
                           analysis and structural equation model (SEM) analysis to test the association (relationship)
                           between key variables in this study.

                           4. Results
                           4.1. Reliability and Validity
                                We examined the reliability and validity of all the variables in relation to the survey
                           items. Table 7 presents our results. Cronbach’s alpha for all variables showed a minimum
                           of 0.847, indicating very high reliability. Moreover, the loading of each factor was a
                           minimum of 0.732, indicating high validity. The average variance extracted (AVE) was at
                           least 0.611. A multicollinearity analysis was performed to conﬁrm the properties closely
                           related to the independent variables; the variance inﬂation factor (VIF) was 4.019 or less,
                           indicating no problems. Accordingly, the reliability and validity of the variables of the
                           study were conﬁrmed.

                           Table 7. Variable reliability and validity.

                                                  Convergent Validity                          Multicollinearity
      Variable            Item                                                  Cronbach’s Alpha
                                      Outer Loadings Composite Reliability AVE                      VIF
                       Producers1         0.856                                                     2.271
                       Producers2         0.863                                                     2.252
      Producers                                           0.921        0.745        0.886
                       Producers3         0.878                                                     2.447
                       Producers4         0.856                                                     2.242
                        Casting1          0.843                                                     2.059
                        Casting2          0.860                                                     2.239
       Casting                                            0.907        0.710        0.864
                        Casting3          0.849                                                     2.083
                        Casting4          0.818                                                     1.832
                        Training1         0.836                                                     1.880
                        Training2         0.836                                                     1.934
       Training                                           0.897        0.686        0.847
                        Training3         0.794                                                     1.765
                        Training4         0.845                                                     1.994
                    Producing/promotion1  0.835                                                     1.964
                    Producing/promotion2  0.848                                                     2.109
  Producing/promotion                                     0.907        0.710        0.864
                    Producing/promotion3  0.850                                                     2.139
                    Producing/promotion4  0.837                                                     1.996
                       Social media1      0.859                                                     2.370
                       Social media2      0.852                                                     2.292
       Social                                             0.919        0.741        0.884
       media           Social media3      0.872                                                     2.402
                       Social media4      0.860                                                     2.180
                        Contents1         0.810                                                     1.885
                        Contents2         0.862                                                     2.227
      Contents                                            0.909        0.714        0.867
                        Contents3         0.850                                                     2.099
                        Contents4         0.858                                                     2.151
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          17 of 30


                           Table 7. Cont.

                                                  Convergent Validity                          Multicollinearity
      Variable            Item                                                  Cronbach’s Alpha
                                      Outer Loadings Composite Reliability AVE                      VIF
                      National image1     0.740                                                     2.116
                      National image2     0.748                                                     2.119
                      National image3     0.787                                                     2.283
                      National image4     0.805                                                     2.367
    National image    National image5     0.732           0.934        0.611        0.920           1.926
                      National image6     0.810                                                     2.550
                      National image7     0.819                                                     2.693
                      National image8     0.784                                                     2.447
                      National image9     0.805                                                     2.347
                      SNS citizenship
                                          0.903                                                     3.576
                        behavior1
                      SNS citizenship
                                          0.902                                                     3.559
                        behavior2
                      SNS citizenship
 SNS citizenship behavior                 0.916           0.957        0.816        0.944           3.985
                        behavior3
                      SNS citizenship
                                          0.913                                                     4.019
                        behavior4
                      SNS citizenship
                                          0.883                                                     3.172
                        behavior5

                     Tourist behavioral   0.910                                                     3.341
                        intention1

                     Tourist behavioral   0.921                                                     3.776
   Tourist behavioral   intention2                        0.947        0.817        0.925
      intention
                     Tourist behavioral   0.869                                                     2.557
                        intention3

                     Tourist behavioral   0.914                                                     3.493
                        intention4
                           Note: Survey items: Likert five-point scale (1 = not at all, 5 = very much); Outer loadings > 0.70; Composite reliability
                           > 0.70; Average variance extracted (AVE) > 0.5; Cronbach’s alpha > 0.70; Variance inflation factor (VIF) < 10.0.

                           4.2. Common Method Bias
                                The respondents are 1247 global viewers (eight countries) who have listened to K-pop
                           on TV, radio, or the Internet at least once, watched K-pop videos on YouTube at least once,
                           and searched for information related to K-pop on SNS at least once. In other words, when
                           the independent variable and the dependent variable are measured in the same way, and
                           when the independent variable and the dependent variable are measured from the same
                           respondent, the case where the correlation value between the two variables is inﬂated more
                           than the actual result, is the same. This is called common method bias [125,126]. This means
                           that there may be cases in which a total of 9 variables (factors) used in this study are inﬂated
                           more positively or negatively than the actual answer to the questionnaire. In particular,
                           when responding to a questionnaire intentionally, in order to maintain consistency, there is
                           a possibility that the correlation between variables may be distorted because the respondent
                           thinks too much before responding.
                                Therefore, in this study, principal component analysis was performed to solve com-
                           mon method bias. The single-factor test suggested by Podsakoff, MacKenzie, Lee, and
                           Podsakoff [127] was performed. As a result of factor analysis, 5 factors with eigenvalues
                           greater than 1 were extracted. Among them, the accumulation (%) of the ﬁrst factor ac-
                           counted for 24.591% (total accumulation: 66.437%). Since this is less than half of the total
                           cumulative (%) of 66.437%, it can be seen that the distortion caused by the common method
                           bias is not large.

                           4.3. Correlation Analysis
                                Table 8 shows the results of the discriminant validity analysis (correlation analysis).
                           We examined whether the AVE square root exceeded the correlation coefﬁcient for each
                           variable. The results indicate that the AVE square root exceeded all correlation coefﬁcient
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          18 of 30


                           values except one. Thus, we partially conﬁrmed the discriminant validity of the variables
                           in our study.

                           Table 8. Correlation analysis.

                                                                                           SNS       Tourist
       Variable      Producers Casting  Training Producing  Social  Contents   National Citizenship Behavioral
                                                            Media              Image     Behavior   Intention
      Producers        0.863      -        -        -         -        -         -          -          -
       Casting         0.770    0.843      -        -         -        -         -          -          -
       Training        0.781    0.799     0.828     -         -        -         -          -          -
      Producing        0.766    0.807     0.800    0.842      -        -         -          -          -
      Social media     0.724    0.705     0.740    0.745    0.861      -         -          -          -
       Contents        0.725    0.713     0.743    0.766    0.784     0.845      -          -          -
     National image    0.550    0.544     0.525    0.563    0.517     0.533     0.782       -          -
 SNS citizenship behavior 0.400 0.498     0.432    0.482    0.380     0.424     0.423      0.903       -
 Tourist behavioral intention 0.434 0.471 0.447    0.481    0.436     0.445     0.659      0.497      0.904
                           Note: The bold diagonal lines indicate the square root of the AVE.

                           4.4. Hypothesis Testing
                                We use SPSS, SmartPLS, GSCA Pro, and JASP for our regression and SEM analysis.
                           The structural equation model (SEM) has the following three approaches: (1) There are CB
                           (covariance based) SEMs such as AMOS, LISREL, MPlus, JASP, and jamovi. In particular,
                           JASP and jamovi are open-source statistical packages with an easy-to-use graphical user
                           interface (GUI). Since it is implemented based on R statistical programming language, it
                           allows the user to use all the powerful and ﬂexible functions in R; (2) There are PLS (partial
                           least squares) based SEMs such as SmartPLS, VisualPLS, and PLS-Graph. Among them,
                           SmartPLS can 
1 generate structural equation and pathway models in a short period of time,
                           
2 easily reﬂect formative measurement models and reﬂective measurement models, 
3 and
                           easily analyze mediating effects and moderating effects [128–131]; and (3) There is general-
                           ized structured component analysis (GSCA) based SEM  such as VisualGSCA and GSCA
                           Pro. In particular, while GSCA SEM is similar to PLS SEM, it has the following differences:
                                
1 PLS is limited-information, whereas GSCA is full-information, 
2 The concept of
                           overall model ﬁt is not well applicable to PLS, 
3 GSCA is more ﬂexible than PLS [132–134].
                           Despite their theoretical differences, PLS and GSCA will likely produce similar estimates
                           of parameters in unidimensional, unidirectional and unconstrained component mod-
                           els [135,136], although GSCA still tends to provide smaller standard errors and conﬁdence
                           intervals [137]. Despite their theoretical differences, PLS and GSCA will likely produce
                           similar estimates of parameters in unidimensional, unidirectional and unconstrained com-
                           ponent models [135,136], although GSCA still tends to provide smaller standard errors and
                           conﬁdence intervals [137]. Hence, this study intends to conduct SEM analysis with three
                           approaches: CB SEM with JASP, PLS SEM with SmartPLS, and GSCA SEM with GSCA Pro.
                                In SmartPLS, resampling is performed 500 times using bootstrapping [28,29,138–141].
                           Bootstrapping, as a non-parametric procedure, can assess the statistical significance of diverse
                           partial least squares-SEM results [28,29,138–141]. In addition, the author would like to conduct
                           regression analysis using the SPSS statistical program. Regression analysis is a statistical
                           technique that estimates the effect of one or more independent variables on the dependent
                           variable. In other words, it is used for statistical analysis to identify the relationship between
                           the variables [17,142,143]. Accordingly, this study will conduct statistical analysis with four
                           approaches, as the objective is to confirm the completeness (accuracy/completion) of the
                           study model design and maximize the generalization possibility of hypothesis test, that is,
                           statistical analysis. Tables 9 and 10, and Figure 2 present our results.
                                According to our SPSS regression results, we observe the following. (1) Four K-pop
                           factors have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on national image: K-pop producers,
                           casting, producing/promotion, and contents. However, two factors, K-pop training and
                           social media, do not have a statistically signiﬁcant inﬂuence on national image. (2) Three
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          19 of 30


                           factors have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior: K-pop
                           casting, producing/promotion, and contents. However, the remaining three factors, K-pop
                           producers, training, and social media, do not have any statistically signiﬁcant effect on SNS
                           citizenship behavior. (3) National image has a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on
                           SNS citizenship behavior. Moreover, national image and SNS citizenship behavior both
                           have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on tourist behavioral intention.
                                From the SEM  results in SmartPLS, we observe the following. (1) The same four
                           K-pop factors have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on national image: K-pop
                           producers, casting, producing/promotion, and contents; and the same two factors, training
                           and social media, have no statistically signiﬁcant inﬂuence on national image. (2) In the
                           SEM, only two factors, K-pop casting and K-pop producing/promotion, have a statistically
                           signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior, while the remaining three factors
                           have no statistically signiﬁcant effect on it (K-pop training, social media, and contents). And
                           producers had a statistically negative impact on SNS citizenship behavior. (3) Here again,
                           national image has a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior
                           and both national image and SNS citizenship behavior have a statistically signiﬁcant
                           positive inﬂuence on tourist behavioral intention.

                           Table 9. Hypothesis testing.

                                    SPSS               SmartPLS            GSCA Pro              JASP
            Path
                              β      t      H     β       t     H      β      t      H     β      t      H
                                    4.187               3.327                3.054               4.217
  H1a            →     NI    0.175          O    0.170          O     0.171          O    0.175          O
        Producers                    ***                 **                   **                  ***
                                    2.814                                    2.723               2.902
        Casting  →     NI    0.124          O    0.125  2.440 * O     0.128          O    0.128          O
  H1b                                **                                       **                  **
  H1c   Training →     NI    0.000 −0.001   X    0.004  0.090   X     0.001  0.022   X    −0.004 −0.099  X
        Producing/                  3.834               3.161                3.462               3.920
  H1d            →     NI    0.177          O    0.178          O     0.180          O    0.181          O
        Promotion                    ***                 **                   **                  ***
  H2a    Social  →     NI    0.072  1.773   X    0.074  1.785   X     0.073  1.698   X    0.072  1.770   X
         media
                                    2.983                                                        2.927
        Contents →     NI    0.125          O    0.123  2.497 * O     0.123 2.412 *  O    0.122          O
  H2b                                **                                                           **
                                      2
             -                 R = 0.605, R = 0.367,      -                   -                   -
                              F = 119.589 (p = 0.000)
                      SNS
  H3a            →          −0.060 −1.341   X    −0.093 2.001 * X    −0.094 −1.918   X    −0.096 −2.160  X
        Producers      CB
                                    6.876               5.521                5.017               6.520
        Casting  →    SNS    0.326          O    0.301          O     0.301          O    0.303          O
  H3b                  CB            ***                 ***                 ***                  ***
                      SNS
  H3c   Training →           0.001  0.027   X    −0.002 0.035   X     0.001  0.021   X    0.003  0.066   X
                       CB
                      SNS           4.552               3.029                2.653               3.857
        Producing/ →         0.226          O    0.190          O     0.191          O    0.189          O
  H3d   Promotion      CB            ***                 **                   **                  ***
                      SNS
  H4a    Social  →          −0.059 −1.346   X    −0.069 1.286   X    −0.074 −1.276   X    −0.073 −1.701  X
         media         CB
                      SNS
        Contents →           0.106 2.357 *  O    0.082  1.507   X     0.083  1.627   X    0.081  1.841   X
  H4b                  CB
                                      2
             -                 R = 0.519, R = 0.270,      -                   -                   -
                               F = 76.312 (p = 0.000)
                      SNS          16.264               5.280                5.158               6.589
  H5      NI     →           0.419          O    0.197          O     0.196          O    0.197          O
                       CB            ***                 ***                 ***                  ***
                               R = 0.419, R2 = 0.175,
                              F = 264.527 (p = 0.000)
                                   24.270               21.922              21.000               24.214
  H6      NI     →     TBI   0.542          O    0.545          O     0.546          O    0.541          O
                                     ***                 ***                 ***                  ***
                                   12.087               9.918                9.172               12.029
  H7    SNS CB   →     TBI   0.270          O    0.266          O     0.266          O    0.269          O
                                     ***                 ***                 ***                  ***
                                                                                           CFI = 0.959, GFI = 0.908,
                                      2
             -                 R = 0.699, R = 0.489, SRMR = 0.037, NFI = 0.898 SRMR = 0.027, GFI = 0.997 NFI = 0.941, TLI = 0.955,
                              F = 594.543 (p = 0.000)                                         SRMR = 0.028,
                                                                                              RMSEA = 0.041
                           Note: * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, *** p < 0.001.
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                       21 of 31 
 

                              Table 10. Summary of hypotheses. 

                                                             Path                                     Hypothesis 
                                 H1a            Producers           →        National image            Supported 
                                 H1b             Casting            →        National image            Supported 
      Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          20 of 30
                                 H1c             Training           →        National image          Not supported 
                                 H1d       Producing/promotion      →        National image            Supported 
                                 H2a           Social media         →        National image          Not supported 
                                 Table 10. Summary of hypotheses.
                                 H2b             Contents           →        National image            Supported 
                                                Path                                               Hypothesis
                                                                    → 
            H1a                ProducersH3a     Producers→              SNSNational citizenship image  behavior SupportedNot supported 
            H1b                 CastingH3b       Casting →          →   SNSNational citizenship image  behavior SupportedSupported 
            H1c                 TrainingH3c      Training→          →   SNSNational citizenship image behavior NotNot supported supported 
            H1d           Producing/promotionH3d Producing/promotion→  → SNSNational citizenship image  behavior SupportedSupported 
                                                        →
            H2a               SocialH4 mediaa  Social media         →   SNSNational citizenship image behavior NotNot supported supported 
            H2b                 Contents                →                National image             Supported
                                                                    →
            H3a                ProducersH4b      Contents→           SNS SNS citizenship citizenship behavior behavior NotPartially supported supported 
            H3b                 Casting                 →            SNS citizenship behavior       Supported
            H3c                 TrainingH5    National image→       →SNS SNS citizenship citizenship behavior behavior Not supportedSupported 
            H3d           Producing/promotion           →            SNS citizenship behavior       Supported
            H4a               Social media              →            SNS citizenship behavior     Not supported
                                                                        Tourist behavioral inten-
            H4b                 ContentsH6    National image→       →SNS citizenship behavior   PartiallySupported supported  
             H5              National image             →            SNS citizenshiption behavior   Supported
             H6              National image             →           TouristTourist behavioral behavioral intention inten- Supported
                                  H7     SNS citizenship behavior   →                                  Supported 
             H7          SNS citizenship behavior       →           Tourist behavioraltion intention Supported


                                                                                                            

                              FigureFigure 2. Results 2. Results of of hypothesis hypothesis testing. testing. 

                              4.5. TheIn Mediated our SEM Effect results using GSCA Pro, we observe the following. (1) Again, the same
                                 four K-pop factors have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on national image:
                                 K-popWe  producers,also  looked casting,  at  whether producing/promotion,  national  image and  and contents,  SNS  while citizenship the same  behavior two factors,  have  a 
                              mediatingK-pop training  effect  in and  the social  relationship media, do  between not have  the a signiﬁcant  K-pop  success effect.  factors (2) As in and our  tourist SEM   be-
                              havioralanalysis intention. using SmartPLS, Table 11 two presents factors, our K-pop results. casting We anddid producing/promotion,observe a mediating effect have ain the 
                              pathstatistically of K-pop signiﬁcant producers, positive casting, inﬂuence producing/promotion, on SNS citizenship behavior,contents while → national the four  otherimage → 
                              SNSfactors  citizenship have no  behavior statistically → signiﬁcant tourist  behavioraleffect on it (K-pop  intention. producers,  The  implicationtraining, social  is media, that  these 
                              fourand K- contents).pop factors (3) are As  inimproving the other  analyses,South Korea national’s national image has image a statistically and thereby signiﬁcant impacting 
                              SNSpositive citizenship inﬂuence  behavior, on SNS citizenship  which,  behaviorultimately, and  bothinfluences national  tourist image and behavioral SNS citizenship  intention. 
                                 behavior have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on tourist behavioral intention.
                              However, we do not observe any mediating effect in the path of K-pop training, social 
                                      In our SEM  results using JASP, we observe the following. (1) Again, the same
                                      →                  →                             →
                              mediafour K-pop nationalfactors image have  a statistically SNS citizenship signiﬁcant behavior positive inﬂuence tourist behavioral on national intention. image:  
                                 K-pop producers, casting, producing/promotion, and contents, while the same two factors,
                                 K-pop training and social media, do not have a signiﬁcant effect. (2) As in our SEM analysis
                                 using GSCA Pro, two factors, K-pop casting and producing/promotion, have a statistically
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          21 of 30


                           signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior, while the four other factors
                           have no statistically signiﬁcant effect on it (K-pop producers, training, social media, and
                           contents). (3) As in the other analyses, national image has a statistically signiﬁcant posi-
                           tive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior and both national image and SNS citizenship
                           behavior have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on tourist behavioral intention.
                                Our hypothesis results can be summarized as follows. (1) Since four K-pop fac-
                           tors show a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on national image (i.e., K-pop pro-
                           ducers, casting, producing/promotion, and contents), [Hypothesis 1a], [Hypothesis 1b],
                           [Hypothesis 1d], and [Hypothesis 2a] are all supported. However, [Hypothesis 1c] and
                           [Hypothesis 2a] are not supported, as the two remaining factors (training and social media)
                           do not signiﬁcantly inﬂuence national image. (2) In terms of [Hypothesis 3b] and [Hypoth-
                           esis 3d], as two factors have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship
                           behavior in all the programs (casting and producing/promotion), these are supported;
                           furthermore, since K-pop contents has a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on SNS
                           citizenship behavior in the SPSS analysis, [Hypothesis 4b] is partially supported. However,
                           as the other three factors do not have a statistically signiﬁcant effect on SNS citizenship
                           behavior (K-pop producers, training, and social media), [Hypothesis 3a], [Hypothesis 3c],
                           and [Hypothesis 4a] are not supported. (3) As national image has a statistically signiﬁcant
                           positive inﬂuence on SNS citizenship behavior and national image and SNS citizenship be-
                           havior both have a statistically signiﬁcant positive inﬂuence on tourist behavioral intention,
                           [Hypotheses 5 ~ Hypotheses 7] are supported.

                           4.5. The Mediated Effect
                                We also looked at whether national image and SNS citizenship behavior have a
                           mediating effect in the relationship between the K-pop success factors and tourist behavioral
                           intention. Table 11 presents our results. We did observe a mediating effect in the path
                           of K-pop producers, casting, producing/promotion, contents → national image → SNS
                           citizenship behavior → tourist behavioral intention. The implication is that these four
                           K-pop factors are improving South Korea’s national image and thereby impacting SNS
                           citizenship behavior, which, ultimately, inﬂuences tourist behavioral intention. However,
                           we do not observe any mediating effect in the path of K-pop training, social media →
                           national image → SNS citizenship behavior → tourist behavioral intention.

                           Table 11. Mediated effect results.

                         Path                               β           t           p        Mediated Effect
             Producers → national image → SNS citizenship
      1                                                   0.009       2.445        0.015          Yes
                 behavior → tourist behavioral intention
               Casting → national image → SNS citizenship
      2                                                   0.007       2.263        0.024          Yes
                 behavior → tourist behavioral intention
              Training → national image → SNS citizenship
      3                                                   0.000       0.094        0.925           No
                 behavior → tourist behavioral intention
             Producing → national image → SNS citizenship
      4                                                   0.009       2.630        0.009          Yes
                 behavior → tourist behavioral intention
                 Social media → national image → SNS
      5              citizenship behavior → tourist       0.004       1.545        0.123           No
                         behavioral intention
              Contents → national image → SNS citizenship
      6                                                   0.006       2.079        0.038          Yes
                 behavior → tourist behavioral intention
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          22 of 30


                           5. Discussion and Conclusions
                           5.1. Summary of the Study
                                (1) Four success factors of K-pop (producers, casting, producing/promotion, and
                           contents) were found to exert a statistically signiﬁcant positive (+) effect on national image.
                           This ﬁnding is consistent with the ﬁndings from previous studies by Han, Chen, and
                           Rhee [109], Jang and Jung [111], Kim [108], Li and Park [112], and Moon and Park [113].
                           In K-pop production, Korean entertainment companies meticulously prepare the global
                           launch by systemizing the entire production process of “casting–training–producing–global
                           promotion.” In terms of the distribution method, in particular, they utilized social media
                           such as YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter and minimized the cost and the time for global
                           launching. In terms of contents, K-pop idols brought about constant transformation based
                           on the combination of excellent singing skills, choreography, and charming visuals, thereby
                           captivating consumers globally.
                                To synthesize the above ﬁnding, the success factors of K-pop led global viewers to feel
                           closer to Korea and helped improve the national image of Korea and its attraction level.
                           That is, among global viewers, K-pop’s popular culture greatly affected the national image
                           of Korea. This veriﬁed that K-pop culture in Korea is contributing to the formation of a
                           positive national image among global viewers.
                                Meanwhile, training and social media did not exert a statistically signiﬁcant effect on
                           national image. The standard of training that puts the multitude of candidates into rigorous
                           training regiments to produce a handful of stars is deemed to be the competitiveness that
                           differentiates Korea from other countries. Nevertheless, training did not exert a statistically
                           signiﬁcant effect on national image. In particular, the hypothesis test using SPSS indicated
                           that the effect of training on national image was not only statistically nonsigniﬁcant, but
                           also showed a negative (-) effect. This suggests that grueling K-pop boot-camps resembling
                           harsh Spartan training can exert a negative effect on the national image of Korea among
                           global viewers.
                                In addition, global K-pop viewers who are familiar with social media enjoy the culture
                           and freely express their views on social media. Nonetheless, social media did not exert
                           a statistically signiﬁcant effect on national image. In reality, global K-pop viewers can
                           use social media to obtain various K-pop-related information and knowledge released
                           by entertainment companies. In other words, global K-pop viewers who widely utilize
                           social media can effectively use their knowledge and collect information about K-pop.
                           Furthermore, much knowledge of K-pop did not necessarily mean a positive national
                           image of Korea. Considering the potential of K-pop, however, it can be speculated that it
                           may form a positive national image in the future.
                                To sum up, K-pop has succeeded in taking root in every corner of the world. This is
                           evident from the headlines of numerous media outlets regarding successful international
                           debuts and global pop hits by Korean musicians, who have taken the center stage in
                           the massive popularity of Korean pop culture on the global stage. Amid the COVID-19
                           pandemic, the world music industry (e.g., ofﬂine music concerts) is suffering a frustrating
                           downturn. However, everyone in the industry is trying hard to boost and revive the
                           market by developing a new competitive edge. Under this situation, speciﬁcally, what
                           made the global success of K-pop possible were the series of efforts and innovations (e.g.,
                           producers, casting, producing/promotion, contents) made by entertainment companies
                           (production companies) under the given circumstances. This is also supported by the
                           results of this study.
                                Therefore, the entry of K-pop and other pop cultures of Korea into the global market,
                           as well as the series of efforts and innovations made by entertainment companies (produc-
                           tion companies) could contribute to enhancing the national brand of Korea. Additionally,
                           they could play an important role in helping other industries of Korea including Korean
                           products, healthcare, and tourism. Also, those efforts and innovations would have other
                           positive effects in improving Korea’s national image/competitiveness in various ﬁelds such
                           as Hangul (Korean alphabet), food, and fashion. In this regard, the success factors (produc-
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          23 of 30


                           ers, casting, producing/promotion, contents) of K-pop are extraordinarily important for
                           improving the national image of Korea.
                                (2) Casting and producing/promotion were found to exert a statistically signiﬁcant
                           positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior. Furthermore, contents showed a statistically
                           signiﬁcant positive (+) effect on SNS citizenship behavior, but only in the SPSS analysis.
                           This ﬁnding partially supports previous studies done by Kim [31] and Jun [30]. The ﬁndings
                           can be summed up in three points: (1) In terms of casting, Korean entertainment companies
                           heavily invest in discovering raw talent. That is, they put all their effort in ﬁnding talented
                           youth, believing that discovery of a good gemstone is half-success. In addition, they actively
                           scout talented youths globally by holding auditions overseas [81]. (2) In terms of producing
                           creative works, Korean entertainment companies tap global sources. In other words, they
                           engage global experts in each ﬁeld of creative work and maximize the level of perfection.
                           Meanwhile, they divide labor in the production process by collaborating with experts from
                           a diverse background (nationality or ﬁeld). In terms of promotion, they utilize the network
                           of local partners. From the planning stage, they keep a global launch in mind and minimize
                           the uncertainty and risks pertaining to a global launch by building a partnership with local
                           companies. In addition, they release albums tailored to the local market and overcome
                           cultural barriers in a short period of time [78,79]. (3) Korean entertainment companies
                           constantly transform contents, while K-pop idols transform the combination of competitive
                           vocals, choreography, and visuals in an attempt to captivate consumers worldwide. In
                           addition, they strive to obtain universal popularity that transcends nationalities by fusing
                           Western-style pop with easy melodies suited for the Asian sentiment. They also strive to
                           offer splendid spectacles by including perfectly regimented group dance and point dance.
                           Furthermore, they constantly attempt to transform through sensational fashion and styles
                           for releasing new songs [14,88–90]. To synthesize the above ﬁndings, the inﬂuence of new
                           media such as YouTube and SNS changed the paradigm    of K-pop distribution and led
                           to active participation of fans [30,31]. Therefore, among the six success factors of K-pop,
                           casting, producing/promotion, and contents maximized information sharing among global
                           K-pop viewers through SNS, while naturally promoting SNS citizenship behavior.
                                In summary, the results of this study indicate that it is necessary to have a clear
                           vision of the global entertainment industry (K-pop) and consistently create innovative
                           K-pop products (contents). In other words, it means that we need to build a sustainable
                           growth model for K-pop by 
1 securing the growth momentum for K-pop, 
2 strengthening
                           the capability of K-pop for industrialization, 
3 developing creative and talented human
                           resources for K-pop, and 
4 establishing rules for fair competition in the K-pop market.
                           And the weapons for improving the quality and diversity of K-pop products (contents) will
                           deﬁnitely go with expanding their market share in the global market. That is, this study
                           indicates that the industry should generate more creative and innovative music products
                           (contents) on a consistent basis, further expanding its consumer base in the world market
                           by developing new genres.
                                Moreover, global K-pop viewers (fans) are actively utilizing social media for commu-
                           nication. Considering this trend, for entertainment companies (production companies), it
                           is of utmost importance to make more aggressive use of social media to distribute K-pop
                           contents, which is substantiated in this study. It can be also said that there is a need to
                           systemically analyze the data of global viewers (fans) on social media and more specif-
                           ically categorize the types and channels for distributing K-pop contents. To this end,
                           K-pop contents for those viewers should be provided in the format that is most friendly
                           to social media, which can be achieved thoroughly based on the interactive relationships
                           among global viewers (fans). Therefore, the success factors (casting, producing/promotion,
                           contents) of K-pop are playing a very important role in enhancing SNS citizenship behavior.
                                (3) National image was found to exert a statistically signiﬁcant positive (+) effect on
                           SNS citizenship behavior. This ﬁnding supports the ﬁndings from previous studies by Ahn
                           and Park [116], Nyadzayo, Matanda, and Ewing [114], and Hoang [115]. This indicates that
                           a positive national image of Korea perceived by global viewers can enhance SNS citizenship
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          24 of 30


                           behavior. That is, accurate K-pop information provided to global K-pop viewers can help
                           create a positive national image and lead them to view Korea more favorably. Therefore,
                           formation of a positive national image can be said to play a crucial role in improving SNS
                           citizenship behavior among global K-pop viewers.
                                (4) National image and SNS citizenship behavior were found to exert a statistically
                           signiﬁcant positive (+) effect on tourist behavioral intention. This ﬁnding supports the
                           ﬁnding of previous studies by Alvarez and Campo [117], Kim, Kim, and Cha [123], Kim,
                           Kim, and Choi [120], Kim, Kim, and Lee [118], Kim, Kwon, and Bae [119], Kwon and
                           Song [124], Lee and Kim  [121], Lee and Lockshin [122], and Suh and Yang [106]. In
                           the culture and tourism industry, national image is considered a key variable that has a
                           profound effect on global K-pop viewers’ (tourists’) decisions on their tourist destination.
                           In other words, under the circumstance where international travel is becoming common,
                           it was shown that building a positive national image can act as an effective factor for
                           attracting more global K-pop viewers (tourists) to Korea.
                                Global K-pop viewers (tourists) become more engrossed by their favorite K-pop idols
                           and continuously search for information about K-pop, which leads to voluntary SNS
                           citizenship behavior. That is, global K-pop viewers (tourists) who voluntarily participate
                           in SNS citizenship behavior perform selﬂess and altruistic acts on SNS. This showed that
                           global K-pop viewers’ (tourists’) voluntary SNS citizenship behavior can lead to tourist
                           behavioral intention in the future.
                                (5) In the path analysis, there was a mediating effect as follows: producers, casting,
                           producing/promotion, contents →  national image → SNS citizenship behavior → tourist
                           behavioral intention. In other words, the four success factors of K-pop were shown to
                           improve national image/SNS citizenship behavior and further improve tourist behavioral
                           intention. Based on this research ﬁnding, we can view the key to the success of K-pop
                           in “competition” from the perspective of business management and psychology. That is,
                           Korean pop culture is competing with Western pop music with a much faster pace than
                           other industries, while differentiating to survive. In doing so, K-pop is offering a unique
                           enjoyment to global viewers unlike Western pop music. Furthermore, because K-pop has
                           built up its strength through competition, the global attention is not temporary. Therefore,
                           the success factors of K-pop demonstrated in this study have crucial roles for K-pop to
                           succeed as a cultural industry in the global market. In other words, this study veriﬁed
                           that the success factors of K-pop can improve global viewers’ national image and SNS
                           citizenship behavior, and ultimately tourist behavioral intention.

                           5.2. Implications of this Study
                                This study has academic and practical implications as follows.
                                (1) This study is very signiﬁcant in that it used three base theories (SERVQUAL model
                           + image theory + theory of planned behavior) to empirically verify the effect of the success
                           factors of K-pop on national image and SNS citizenship behavior, as well as on tourist
                           behavioral intention.
                                (2) The hypotheses in this study were tested using four statistics programs (SPSS,
                           SmartPLS, GSCA Pro, and JASP) in performing regression analysis and SEM analysis. This
                           greatly contributed to improving the level of accuracy and generalization and overcame
                           the limitations of the statistical analyses.
                                (3) As an exemplary cultural product, K-pop is creating large-scale economic added
                           value. Therefore, it is necessary for companies in other ﬁelds to use the K-pop’s strategic
                           value (songs, vocals, fans) as a stepping stone for developing new products, establishing
                           new strategies for promotion, and pioneering a new market. This can be discussed in
                           detail as follows: (1) Added values should be generated using derivative products. That
                           is, the gaming and animation industries can develop products using K-pop contents or
                           stars as characters, while conventional cultural products such as musicals and dramas
                           can cast K-pop singers; (2) Buyers’ goods that attract K-pop fans should be developed. In
                           other words, it is necessary to design customized products that integrate K-pop contents,
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                          25 of 30


                           tourism, and shopping, and attract tourists by landmarking the place that produces K-pop;
                           (3) It is necessary to maximize the effect of promotion through collaboration with K-pop
                           singers who have an exceptional sense of fashion and design; (4) It is essential to adopt
                           a new PR strategy to hire K-pop stars as commercial ﬁlm models for marketing relevant
                           products; and (5) It is imperative to use the K-pop fan base as a bridgehead to enter the
                           newly emerging market. In particular, it is necessary to establish a more meticulous global
                           launching strategy for each region by utilizing social media such as YouTube, which is a
                           main route of K-pop distribution.
                                To synthesize, K-pop succeeds by keeping the global launch in mind from a long-
                           term perspective, and by building on the strength of Korean culture through systematic
                           production of stars who have the crucial talent. Taking this as a lesson, it is imperative to
                           promote the third and the fourth Hallyu to improve the national image and brand as well
                           as the diversiﬁcation of export.
                                (4) It is necessary to establish the measures to integrate K-pop in product planning and
                           PR for sustainable marketing for Hallyu tourism. In other words, it is crucial to encourage
                           visits/travel to Korea through sustainable support and management for ardent K-pop fans
                           and foreign guests attending K-pop concerts. In addition, it is essential to reinforce the
                           development of a sustainable website that provides information about K-pop and relevant
                           tourism information. In the meantime, it is necessary to encourage K-pop performance in
                           relation to sustainable local festivals and to develop K-pop related Hallyu tourism products
                           tailored to different target groups. Furthermore, it is imperative to establish measures to
                           vitalize K-pop-related Hallyu tourism from a sustainable and institutional level.

                           5.3. Limitations of the Study and Future Directions
                                (1) It is speculated that attributes of K-pop consumers may differ between the group
                           of global viewers who actually attended a concert in person more than once and the group
                           of global viewers who only watched the online concerts. Therefore, the groups should be
                           analyzed and compared in a follow-up study.
                                (2) With regard to the likelihood of displaying the tourist behavioral intention by
                           the global viewers who actually attended a K-pop concert, temporal distance and spatial
                           distance from construal level theory should be used as moderator variables. In doing so,
                           the study could show in detail potential visitors’ tourist behavioral intention.
                                (3) In the structure that shows the inﬂuence of realistic success factors of K-pop
                           on tourist behavioral intention, it is necessary to include other parameters (moderator
                           variables) apart from national image and SNS citizenship behavior to examine the effect on
                           tourist behavioral intention from multiple perspectives.

                           Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.-h.K.; Data curation J.-h.K.; Formal analysis J.-h.K.;
                           Investigation J.-h.K.; Methodology J.-h.K.; Supervision H.-j.C.; Validation H.-j.C.; Visualization J.-h.K.;
                           Writing—original draft J.-h.K., K.-j.K., B.-t.P. and H.-j.C.; Writing—review & editing J.-h.K., K.-j.K.,
                           B.-t.P. and H.-j.C. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
                           Funding: This work was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea Grant funded by
                           the Korean Government (NRF-2019S1A5B5A02051362).
                           Institutional Review Board Statement: Ethical review and approval were waived for this study,
                           because, although it was a human study, it was observational, and the research design did not involve
                           ethical issues.
                           Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study.
                           Data Availability Statement: Data sharing not applicable. The data are not publicly available due to
                           participants’ privacy.
                           Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                         26 of 30


References
1.   Ryu, J.; Capistrano, E.P.; Lin, H.C. Non-Korean consumers’ preferences on Korean popular music: A two-country study. Int. J.
     Mark. Res. 2020, 62, 234–252. [CrossRef]
2. Boman, B. Cultural amnesia or continuity? Expressions of han in K-pop. East Asian J. Pop. Cult. 2020, 6, 111–123. [CrossRef]
3.   Zhao, J.J. Blackpink queers your area: The global queerbaiting and queer fandom of K-pop female idols. Fem. Media Stud. 2021,
     21, 1033–1038. [CrossRef]
4.   Kanozia, R.; Ganghariya, G. More than K-pop fans: BTS fandom and activism amid COVID-19 outbreak.    Media Asia 2021, 48,
     338–345. [CrossRef]
5.   Parc, J.; Kim, S.D. The digital transformation of the Korean music industry and the global emergence of K-pop. Sustainability 2020,
     12, 7790. [CrossRef]
6.   Shin, S.I. 14. How K-pop went global: Digitization and the market-making of Korean entertainment houses. In Pop Empires:
     Transnational and Diasporic Flows of India and Korea; Heijin Lee, S., Mehta, M., Ji-Song Ku, R., Alexy, A., Eds.; University of Hawaii
     Press: Honolulu, HI, USA, 2019; pp. 268–281. [CrossRef]
7.   Malik, Z.; Haidar, S. Online community development through social interaction—K-Pop stan twitter as a community of practice.
     Interact. Learn. Environ. 2020, 1–19. [CrossRef]
8. Yoon, K. Diasporic youth culture of K-pop. J. Youth Stud. 2019, 22, 138–152. [CrossRef]
9.   Kim, S.; Hwang, S.; Kim, J. Factors inﬂuencing K-pop artists’ success on V live online video platform. Telecommun. Policy 2021,
     45, 102090. [CrossRef]
10.  Jin, D.Y. Transnationalism, cultural ﬂows, and the rise of the Korean Wave around the globe. Int. Commun. Gaz. 2019, 81, 117–120.
     [CrossRef]
11.  Sim, H.; Kim, S.; Lee, B. K-Pop strategy seen from the viewpoint of cultural hybridity and the tradition of the Gwangdae. Kritika
     Kultura 2017, 29, 292–317. [CrossRef]
12. Bang, Y.Y.; Joo, Y.; Seok, H.; Nam, Y. Does K-pop affect Peruvians’ Korean images and visit intention to Korea? Curr. Issues Tour.
     2021, 24, 3519–3534. [CrossRef]
13. Kang, J.M. Rediscovering the idols: K-pop idols behind the mask. Celebrity Stud. 2017, 8, 136–141. [CrossRef]
14.  Kim, Y.Y. Performed intermediality and beyond in the BTS music video ‘Idol’: K-Pop idol identities in contemporary Hallyu. East
     Asian J. Pop. Cult. 2020, 6, 239–255. [CrossRef]
15.  Park, H.K. Success factor analysis of new Korean wave ‘K-POP’ and a study on the importance of smart media to sustain Korean
     wave. J. Digit. Converg. 2020, 18, 129–135. [CrossRef]
16. Messerlin, P.A.; Shin, W. The success of K-pop: How big and why so fast? Asian J. Soc. Sci. 2017, 45, 409–439. [CrossRef]
17.  Kim, J.H.; Jung, M.H.; Choi, H.J. Popular culture inﬂuences on national image and tourism behavioural intention: An exploratory
     study. J. Psychol. Afr. 2021, 31, 390–399. [CrossRef]
18.  Bland, E. How “smart” are K-pop fans: Can the study of emotional intelligence of K-pop fans increase marketing potential. Cult.
     Empathy 2019, 2, 105–115. [CrossRef]
19.  Singer, N.G.; Hidayat, Z. Inﬂuencing factors in fans’ consumer behavior: BTS meal distribution in Indonesia. J. Distrib. Sci. 2021,
     19, 113–123. [CrossRef]
20.  Cruz, A.G.B.; Seo, Y.; Binay, I. Cultural globalization from the periphery: Translation practices of English-speaking K-pop fans.
     J. Consum. Cult. 2021, 21, 638–659. [CrossRef]
21.  Swan, A.L. Transnational identities and feeling in fandom: Place and embodiment in K-pop fan reaction videos. Commun. Cult.
     Crit. 2018, 11, 548–565. [CrossRef]
22.  Ahn, H. English and K-pop: The case of BTS 1. In English in East and South Asia: Policy, Features and Language in Use; Low, E.L.,
     Pakir, A., Eds.; Routledge: London, UK, 2021; pp. 212–225.
23.  Yoon, K. Global imagination of K-pop: Pop music fans’ lived experiences of cultural hybridity. Pop. Music Soc. 2018, 41, 373–389.
     [CrossRef]
24. Xu, M. The rise of Time Fengjun Entertainment. SSR 2021, 3, 178–181. [CrossRef]
25.  Balakrishnan, J.; Grifﬁths, M.D. Social media addiction: What is the role of content in YouTube? J. Behav. Addict. 2017, 6, 364–377.
     [CrossRef]
26.  De Jesus, C.F. “BangBangCon: The live”—A case study on live performances and marketing strategies with the Korean-Pop
     group “BTS” during the pandemic scenario in 2020. AMJ 2021, 22, 63–78. [CrossRef]
27.  Seo, J.H.; Kim, B. The “Hallyu” phenomenon: Utilizing tourism destination as product placement in K-POP culture. Tour. Econ.
     2020, 26, 719–728. [CrossRef]
28.  Kwak, H.E.; Kim, J.H.; Kim, S.Y.; Jung, J.E.; Choi, H.J. Korean dance performance inﬂuences on prospective tourist cultural
     products consumption and behaviour intention. J. Psychol. Afr. 2019, 29, 230–236. [CrossRef]
29.  Lee, H.W.; Kim, J.H. Brand loyalty and the Bangtan Sonyeondan (BTS) Korean dance: Global viewers’ perceptions. J. Psychol. Afr.
     2020, 30, 551–558. [CrossRef]
30.  Jun, J.K. A Study on the Factors of Overseas Spread of K-pop: With Focus on the Analysis of Producer, Recipient, Media and
     Content Field. Ph.D. Thesis, Kookmin University Graduate, Seoul, Korea, 2019. Available online: http://www.riss.kr/link?id=T1
     5372345 (accessed on 22 January 2022).
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                         27 of 30


31.  Kim, H.S. A Study on Success Strategies for Global Marketing of K-Pop: Focusing on Experts' In-Depth Interview. Master's
     Thesis, The Graduate School of Journalism and Mass Communication, Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea, 2012. Available online:
     http://www.riss.kr/link?id=T12865319 (accessed on 22 January 2022).
32.  Lie, J. What is the K in K-pop? South Korean popular music, the culture industry, and national identity. Korea Obs. 2012,
     43, 339–363.
33.  Oh, J.M.; Lee, S.B. The knowledge structure of K-pop research in Korea: Focusing on the network analysis of research keyword
     2012–2021. J. Media Econ. Cult. 2021, 19, 7–38. Available online: http://www.riss.kr/link?id=A107932359 (accessed on 22 January
     2022). [CrossRef]
34.  Liu, R.; Cui, L.; Zeng, G.; Wu, H.; Wang, C.; Yan, S.; Yan, B. Applying the fuzzy SERVQUAL method to measure the service
     quality in certiﬁcation & inspection industry. Appl. Soft. Comput. 2015, 26, 508–512. [CrossRef]
35.  Shankar, A.; Jebarajakirthy, C. The inﬂuence of e-banking service quality on customer loyalty: A moderated mediation approach.
     Int. J. Bank Mark. 2019, 37, 1119–1142. [CrossRef]
36. Stamenkov, G.; Dika, Z. A sustainable e-service quality model. J. Serv. Theory Pract. 2015, 25, 414–442. [CrossRef]
37.  Jonkisz, A.; Karniej, P.; Krasowska, D. SERVQUAL method as an “Old New” tool for improving the quality of medical services: A
     literature review. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2021, 18, 10758. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
38. Ladhari, R. A review of twenty years of SERVQUAL research.  Int. J. Qual. Serv. Sci. 2009, 1, 172–198. [CrossRef]
39.  Rodrigues, L.L.; Barkur, G.; Varambally, K.V.M.; Motlagh, F.G. Comparison of SERVQUAL and SERVPERF metrics: An empirical
     study. TQM J. 2011, 23, 629–643. [CrossRef]
40.  Rezaei, J.; Kothadiya, O.; Tavasszy, L.; Kroesen, M. Quality assessment of airline baggage handling systems using SERVQUAL
     and BWM.   Tour. Manag. 2018, 66, 85–93. [CrossRef]
41.  Shah, F.T.; Syed, Z.; Imam, A.; Raza, A. The impact of airline service quality on passengers’ behavioral intentions using passenger
     satisfaction as a mediator. J. Air Transp. Manag. 2020, 85, 101815. [CrossRef]
42. Ali, S.S.; Basu, A.; Ware, N. Quality measurement of Indian commercial hospitals—Using a SERVQUAL framework.   BIJ 2018,
     mboxemph25, 815–837. [CrossRef]
43.  Lee, S.; Kim, E.K. The effects of Korean medical service quality and satisfaction on revisit intention of the United Arab Emirates
     government sponsored patients. Asian Nurs. Res. 2017, 11, 142–149. [CrossRef]
44.  Famiyeh, S.; Kwarteng, A.; Asante-Darko, D. Service quality, customer satisfaction and loyalty in automobile maintenance
     services: Evidence from a developing country. J. Qual. Maint. Eng. 2018, 24, 262–279. [CrossRef]
45.  Jain, N.K.; Singh, A.K.; Kaushik, K. Evaluating service quality in automobile maintenance and repair industry. Asia Pac. J. Mark.
     Logist. 2020, 33, 117–134. [CrossRef]
46.  James, A.T.; James, J. Service quality evaluation of automobile garages using a structural approach. Int. J. Qual. Reliab. Manag.
     2021, 38, 602–627. [CrossRef]
47.  Durdyev, S.; Ihtiyar, A.; Banaitis, A.; Thurnell, D. The construction client satisfaction model: A PLS-SEM approach. J. Civ. Eng.
     Manag. 2018, 24, 31–42. [CrossRef]
48.  Prakash, A.; Phadtare, M. Service quality for architects: Scale development and validation. Eng. Constr. Archit. Manag. 2018,
     25, 670–686. [CrossRef]
49.  Gholipour Soleimani, A.; Einolahzadeh, H. The inﬂuence of service quality on revisit intention: The mediating role of WOM and
     satisfaction (Case study: Guilan travel agencies). Cogent Soc. Sci. 2018, 4, 1560651. [CrossRef]
50.  Mohtasham, S.S.; Sarollahi, S.K.; Hamirazavi, D. The effect of service quality and innovation on word of mouth marketing success.
     Eurasian Bus. Rev. 2017, 7, 229–245. [CrossRef]
51.  Chang, Y. A preliminary study of job performance in entertainment management using DACUM job analysis. J. Secr. Stud. 2010,
     19, 5–32.
52.  Choi, B.H.; Park, J.H. Policy measures: Strengthening K-pop competitiveness. Korea Institute for Industrial Economics & Trade.
     Policy Data 2017, 239, 1–79.
53.  Kim, M.K. A study on the structure and the characteristic of the relation in the entertainment industry. Hum. Contents 2012,
     26, 73–99.
54.  Beach, L.R.; Mitchell, T.R. Image theory: Principles, goals, and plans in decision making. Acta Psychol. 1987, 66, 201–220. [CrossRef]
55.  Tversky, A.; Kahneman, D. Availability: A heuristic for judging frequency and probability. Cogn. Psychol. 1973, 5, 207–232.
     [CrossRef]
56.  Penney, C.; Vardaman, J.; Marler, L.; Antin-Yates, V. An image theory of strategic decision-making in family businesses. J. Fam.
     Bus. Manag. 2019, 9, 451–467. [CrossRef]
57.  Salavou, H.; Lioukas, S. An empirical juxtapose of the effects of self-image on entrepreneurial career along the spectrum of
     nascent to actual entrepreneurs. Eur. Manag. Rev. 2019, 16, 1129–1141. [CrossRef]
58.  Beach, L.R.; Puto, C.P.; Heckler, S.E.; Naylor, G.; Marble, T.A. Differential versus unit weighting of violations, framing, and the
     role of probability in image theory’s compatibility test. Organ. Behav. Hum. Decis. Process. 1996, 65, 77–82. [CrossRef]
59.  Nelson, K.A. Consumer decision making and image theory: Understanding value-laden decisions.    J. Consum. Psychol. 2004,
     14, 28–40. [CrossRef]
60.  Thompson, M.N.; Dahling, J.J. Image theory and career aspirations: Indirect and interactive effects of status-related variables.
     J. Vocat. Behav. 2010, 77, 21–29. [CrossRef]
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                         28 of 30


61.  Kim, H.G. Gender/sexuality politics of Korean entertainment industry structured by entertainment management companies.
     J. Korean Women Stud. 2014, 30, 53–88.
62.  An, J.H.; Jeong, C. An exploratory study on the sustainability of Korean wave and successful process of Korean cultural wave
     contents: A case of PSY’s GangNam style. J. Tour. Sci. 2014, 38, 215–238.
63.  Cho, B.C.; Sim, H. Sucess factor analysis of K-POP and a study on sustainable Korean wave—Focus on smart media based on
     realistic contents. J. Korea Contents Assoc. 2013, 13, 90–102. [CrossRef]
64.  Lee, I.K.; Kim, J.B.; Oh, J.W. A study on the “Korean drama and movie wave” in China and Japan. J. Kor. Serv. Manag. Soc. 2007,
     8, 155–184.
65.  Wen, X.; Cha, H.W. How Korean popular music(K-Pop)’s cultural proximity inﬂuences oversea audience’s evaluation of K-Pop’s
     image and South Korea’s national image. J. Commun. Stud. 2015, 59, 267–300.
66.  Choi, I.Y.; Choi, H.J.; Lee, J.Y.; Jung, S.H.; An, B.J.; Kim, J.H. Quality of Olympics opening ceremony: Tourism behavioural
     intention of international spectators. J. Psychol. Afr. 2019, 29, 126–134. [CrossRef]
67.  Kim, J.H.; Lee, K.T.; Seok, B.I.; Choi, H.J.; Jung, S.H. Competitive factors of electronic dance music festivals with Social Networking
     Service (SNS) citizenship behaviour of international tourists. J. Psychol. Afr. 2018, 28, 116–121. [CrossRef]
68.  Meng, H.Y.; Jung, S.H.; Yu, J.P.; Bae, K.H.; An, B.J.; Kim, J.H. Perceived tourist values of the Museum of African Art. J. Psychol. Afr.
     2018, 28, 375–381. [CrossRef]
69. Ajzen, I. The theory of planned behavior: Frequently asked questions. Hum. Behav. Emerg. Technol. 2020, 2, 314–324. [CrossRef]
70.  Buhmann, A.; Brønn, P.S. Applying Ajzen’s theory of planned behavior to predict practitioners’ intentions to measure and
     evaluate communication outcomes.  Corp. Commun. Int. J. 2018, 23, 377–391. [CrossRef]
71. Miller, Z.D. The enduring use of the theory of planned behavior. Hum. Dimens. Wildl. 2017, 22, 583–590. [CrossRef]
72.  Hansen, T.; Jensen, J.M.; Solgaard, H.S. Predicting online grocery buying intention: A comparison of the theory of reasoned action
     and the theory of planned behavior. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 2004, 24, 539–550. [CrossRef]
73.  Procter, L.; Angus, D.J.; Blaszczynski, A.; Gainsbury, S.M. Understanding use of consumer protection tools among Internet
     gambling customers: Utility of the Theory of Planned Behavior and Theory of Reasoned Action. Addict. Behav. 2019, 99, 106050.
     [CrossRef]
74.  Yzer, M. Theory of reasoned action and theory of planned behavior. In The International Encyclopedia of Media Effects; Rossler, P.,
     Hoffner, C.A., Zoonen, L., Eds.; Wiley: New York, NY, USA, 2017; pp. 1–7.
75.  Ajzen, I. Perceived behavioral control, self-efﬁcacy, locus of control, and the theory of planned behavior. J. Appl. Soc. Psychol.
     2002, 32, 665–683. [CrossRef]
76.  Ishoy, G.A. The theory of planned behavior and policing: How attitudes about behavior, subjective norms, and perceived
     behavioral control affect the discretionary enforcement decisions of police ofﬁcers. Crim. Justice Stud. 2016, 29, 345–362. [CrossRef]
77.  Steinmetz, H.; Davidov, E.; Schmidt, P. Three approaches to estimate latent interaction effects: Intention and perceived behavioral
     control in the theory of planned behavior. Methodol. Innov. Online 2011, 6, 95–110. [CrossRef]
78.  Fuhr, M. Globalization and Popular Music in South Korea: Sounding Out K-Pop; Routledge: New York, NY, USA, 2015; pp. 1–256.
     [CrossRef]
79.  Lee, S.H.; Choi, S.; Kim, H.W. Unveiling the success factors of BTS: A mixed-methods approach. Internet Res. 2021, 31, 1518–1540.
     [CrossRef]
80. Oh, I. The globalization of K-pop: Korea’s place in the global music industry. Korea Obs. 2013, 44, 389–409.
81.  Shin, S.I.; Kim, L. Organizing K-pop: Emergence and market making of large Korean entertainment houses, 1980–2010. East Asia
     2013, 30, 255–272. [CrossRef]
82.  Jung, E.Y. New wave formations: K-pop idols, social media, and the remaking of the Korean wave. In Hallyu 2.0: The Korean Wave
     in the Age of Social Media; Lee, S., Nornes, A.M., Eds.; University of Michigan Press: Ann Arbor, MI, USA, 2015; pp. 73–89.
83. Jung, S. K-pop, Indonesian fandom, and social media. Transform. Works Cult. 2011, 8. [CrossRef]
84.  Jung, S. Youth, social media and transnational cultural distribution: The case of online K-pop circulation. In Mediated Youth
     Cultures; Bennett, A., Robards, B., Eds.; Palgrave Macmillan: London, UK, 2014; pp. 114–129. [CrossRef]
85.  Marinescu, V.; Balica, E. Korean cultural products in Eastern Europe: A case study of the K-Pop impact in Romania. Region 2013,
     2, 113–135. [CrossRef]
86.  Min, W.; Jin, D.Y.; Han, B. Transcultural fandom of the Korean wave in Latin America: Through the lens of cultural intimacy and
     afﬁnity space. Media Cult. Soc. 2019, 41, 604–619. [CrossRef]
87. Sung, S.Y. K-pop reception and participatory fan culture in Austria. Cross-Currents 2014, 3, 56–71. [CrossRef]
88. Dor  é, P.; Pugsley, P.C. Genre conventions in K-pop: BTS’s ‘Dope’ music video. Continuum 2019, 33, 580–589. [CrossRef]
89.  Oh, I.; Lee, H.J. K-pop in Korea: How the pop music industry is changing a post-developmental society. Cross-Currents 2014,
     3, 72–93. [CrossRef]
90.  Parc, J.; Messerlin, P.; Moon, H.C. The secret to the success of K-pop: The beneﬁts of well-balanced copyrights. In Corporate
     Espionage, Geopolitics, and Diplomacy Issues in International Business; Christiansen, B., Kasarcpolit, Eds.; IGI Global: Hershey, PA,
     USA, 2016; pp. 130–148.
91.  Laroche, M.; Papadopoulos, N.; Heslop, L.A.; Mourali, M. The inﬂuence of country image structure on consumer evaluations of
     foreign products. Int. Mark. Rev. 2005, 22, 96–115. [CrossRef]
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                         29 of 30


92.  Kim, S.; Kim, S.; Han, H. Effects of TV drama celebrities on national image and behavioral intention. Asia Pac. J. Tour. Res. 2019,
     24, 233–249. [CrossRef]
93.  Sobol, K.; Cleveland, M.; Laroche, M. Globalization, national identity, biculturalism and consumer behavior: A longitudinal study
     of Dutch consumers. J. Bus. Res. 2018, 82, 340–353. [CrossRef]
94.  White, C.L. Brands and national image: An exploration of inverse country-of-origin effect. Place Brand. Public Dipl. 2012, 8,
     110–118. [CrossRef]
95.  Zeugner-Roth, K.P.; Žabkar, V.; Diamantopoulos, A. Consumer ethnocentrism, national identity, and consumer cosmopolitanism
     as drivers of consumer behavior: A social identity theory perspective. J. Int. Mark. 2015, 23, 25–54. [CrossRef]
96.  Han, G.Y.; Jo, S.C. The inﬂuence of Korea’s national image on intention to use Korean wave contents and mediating effect of the
     Korean wave fandom identiﬁcation: Focusing on Asian consumers.  J. Korea Contents Assoc. 2019, 19, 296–305. [CrossRef]
97.  Fan, Q. Relationship among China’s country image, corporate image and brand image: A Korean consumer perspective.
     J. Contemp. Mark. Sci. 2019, 2, 34–49. [CrossRef]
98.  Fischer, P.M.; Zeugner-Roth, K.P. Disentangling country-of-origin effects: The interplay of product ethnicity, national identity, and
     consumer ethnocentrism.  Mark. Lett. 2017, 28, 189–204. [CrossRef]
99.  Kim, J.H.; Seok, B.I.; Lee, K.T.; Yu, J.P. Effects of social responsibility activities of franchise chain hotels on customer value and
     SNS citizenship behavior. Korean J. Franch. Manag. 2017, 8, 5–16. [CrossRef]
100. Choi, H.J. Effect of chief executive ofﬁcer’s sustainable leadership styles on organization members’ psychological well-being and
     organizational citizenship behavior. Sustainability 2021, 13, 13676. [CrossRef]
101. Jang, Y.J.; Lee, S.H.; Kim, H.W. Examining the impact of online friendship desire on citizenship behavior. Asia Pac. J. Inf. Syst.
     2013, 23, 29–51. [CrossRef]
102. Levitt, J.A.; Zhang, P.; DiPietro, R.B.; Meng, F. Food tourist segmentation: Attitude, behavioral intentions and travel planning
     behavior based on food involvement and motivation. Int. J. Hosp. Tour. Adm. 2019, 20, 129–155. [CrossRef]
103. Wu, J.; Zeng, M.; Xie, K.L. Chinese travelers’ behavioral intentions toward room-sharing platforms: The inﬂuence of motivations,
     perceived trust, and past experience. Int. J. Contemp. Hosp. Manag. 2017, 29, 2688–2707. [CrossRef]
104. Afshardoost, M.; Eshaghi, M.S. Destination image and tourist behavioural intentions: A meta-analysis. Tour. Manag. 2020,
     81, 104154. [CrossRef]
105. Choe, J.Y.J.; Kim, S.S. Effects of tourists’ local food consumption value on attitude, food destination image, and behavioral
     intention. Int. J. Hosp. Manag. 2018, 71, 1–10. [CrossRef]
106. Suh, C.H.; Yang, J.Y. The effects of Korean wave contents on country image and behavioral intentions. Korea J. Bus. Adm. 2012,
     25, 1917–1938.
107. Lee, J.H. A study on Korea country image and cosmetics brand image in Vietnam market by the Korean wave. Int. Commer. Inf.
     Rev. 2015, 17, 73–91. [CrossRef]
108. Kim, H.S. Brand management process for national brand image. J. Korea Soc. Des. Sci. 2009, 22, 47–58.
109. Han, C.M.; Chen, X.; Rhee, S.Y. The Korean wave in China and perceived images of Korean brands: Korean wave advertising vs.
     country-of-origin effects. Korean Manag. Rev. 2011, 40, 1055–1074.
110. Kim, T.Y. Convergence of the image of the professor in human resources of small and medium enterprises to self image: Mediating
     effect of voice image. J. Converg. Inf. Technol. 2017, 7, 229–234. [CrossRef]
111. Jang, H.J.; Jung, J.W. National brand image strategy through BPL cultural marketing: Focused on BPL promotional advertisements.
     KDK J. 2012, 24, 312–321.
112. Li, G.; Park, S.T. A study on the effect of social media on country image and purchasing intention: Focused on Chinese consumers.
     J. Digit. Converg. 2012, 10, 119–128. [CrossRef]
113. Moon, H.J.; Park, S.H. A study the relation between popular factors and likability of hallyu and the national image. J. Public Relat.
     2012, 16, 247–280. [CrossRef]
114. Nyadzayo, M.W.; Matanda, M.J.; Ewing, M.T. The impact of franchisor support, brand commitment, brand citizenship behavior,
     and franchisee experience on franchisee-perceived brand image. J. Bus. Res. 2015, 68, 1886–1894. [CrossRef]
115. Hoang, H.T. How does service climate inﬂuence hotel employees’ brand citizenship behavior? A social exchange and social
     identity perspective. Australas. Mark. J. 2022, 30, 51–59. [CrossRef]
116. Ahn, T.H.; Park, B.G. The effects of corporate social responsibility on company image and customer citizenship behavior: Focused
     on Japanese students. J. Digit. Converg. 2019, 17, 185–192. [CrossRef]
117. Alvarez, M.D.; Campo, S. The inﬂuence of political conﬂicts on country image and intention to visit: A study of Israel’s image.
     Tour. Manag. 2014, 40, 70–78. [CrossRef]
118. Kim, S.P.; Kim, S.J.; Lee, M.S. Effects of Korean wave image inﬂuences on the purchase intention of Korean educational product—
     Focus on the controlling effects of engagement in Chinese university students. J. Korea Contents Assoc. 2013, 13, 460–474.
     [CrossRef]
119. Kim, J.H.; Kwon, J.H.; Bae, K.H. Impact of K-pop consumption attributes on national image and behavioral intention to visit:
     Targeting Americans, British, South Africans and Filipinos. J. Korea Cult. Ind. 2018, 18, 63–73. [CrossRef]
120. Kim, C.K.; Kim, G.D.; Choi, H.J. The effects of Hanllu on national image, Korea and wedding tourism. Northeast Asian Tour. Res.
     2015, 11, 27–44.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 3200                                                                                         30 of 30


121. Lee, M.S.; Kim, C.S. The effect of country image on tourist destination attitudes and behavioral intentions. J. Tour. Sci. 2012,
     36, 157–178.
122. Lee, R.; Lockshin, L. Halo effects of tourists’ destination image on domestic product perceptions. Australas. Mark. J. 2011, 19, 7–13.
     [CrossRef]
123. Kim, S.Y.; Kim, Y.S.; Cha, S.M. Effects of restaurant customer’s participation and citizenship behavior on satisfaction, commitment
     and revisit intention. J. Tour. Leis. Res. 2017, 29, 61–81.
124. Kwon, S.Y.; Song, M.G. The effects of community attachment and civic consciousness on pro-environmental behavioral intention:
     Pyeongtaek Case Study. J. Environ. Policy Adm. 2017, 25, 195–219. [CrossRef]
125. Jordan, P.J.; Troth, A.C. Common method bias in applied settings: The dilemma of researching in organizations. Aust. J. Manag.
     2020, 45, 3–14. [CrossRef]
126. Kock, F.; Berbekova, A.; Assaf, A.G. Understanding and managing the threat of common method bias: Detection, prevention and
     control. Tour. Manag. 2021, 86, 104330. [CrossRef]
127. Podsakoff, P.M.; MacKenzie, S.B.; Lee, J.Y.; Podsakoff, N.P. Common method biases in behavioral research: A critical review of
     the literature and recommended remedies. J. Appl. Psychol. 2003, 88, 879–903. [CrossRef]
128. Ali, F.; Rasoolimanesh, S.M.; Sarstedt, M.; Ringle, C.M.; Ryu, K. An assessment of the use of partial least squares structural
     equation modeling (PLS-SEM) in hospitality research. Int. J. Contemp. Hosp. Manag. 2018, 30, 514–538. [CrossRef]
129. Dash, G.; Paul, J. CB-SEM vs PLS-SEM methods for research in social sciences and technology forecasting. Technol. Forecast. Soc.
     2021, 173, 121092. [CrossRef]
130. Hair Jr, J.F.; Howard, M.C.; Nitzl, C. Assessing measurement model quality in PLS-SEM using conﬁrmatory composite analysis.
     J. Bus. Res. 2020, 109, 101–110. [CrossRef]
131. Sarstedt, M.; Hair, J.F.; Ringle, C.M.; Thiele, K.O.; Gudergan, S.P. Estimation issues with PLS and CBSEM: Where the bias lies!
     J. Bus. Res. 2016, 69, 3998–4010. [CrossRef]
132. Hair, J.F.; Risher, J.J.; Sarstedt, M.; Ringle, C.M. When to use and how to report the results of PLS-SEM. Eur. Bus. Rev. 2019,
     31, 2–24. [CrossRef]
133. Hair, J.F.; Hult, G.T.M.; Ringle, C.M.; Sarstedt, M.A. Primer on Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM), 3rd ed.;
     Sage: Thousand Oaks, CA, USA, 2021; pp. 1–384.
134. Sarstedt, M.; Ringle, C.M.; Hair, J.F. Partial least squares structural equation modeling. In Handbook of Market Research; Homburg,
     C., Klarmann, M., Vomberg, A., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2017; pp. 1–40.
135. Cho, G.; Choi, J.Y. An empirical comparison of generalized structured component analysis and partial least squares path modeling
     under variance-based structural equation models. Behaviormetrika 2020, 47, 243–272. [CrossRef]
136. Hair, J.F.; Hult, G.T.M.; Ringle, C.M.; Sarstedt, M.; Thiele, K.O. Mirror, mirror on the wall: A comparative evaluation of
     composite-based structural equation modeling methods. J. Acad. Market. Sci. 2017, 45, 616–632. [CrossRef]
137. Hwang, H.; Takane, Y. Generalized structured component analysis. Psychometrika 2004, 69, 81–99. [CrossRef]
138. Han, Y.S.; Kim, J.H. Performing arts and sustainable consumption: Inﬂuences of consumer perceived value on ballet performance
     audience loyalty. J. Psychol. Afr. 2021, 31, 32–42. [CrossRef]
139. Jung, S.H.; Kim, J.H.; Cho, H.N.; Lee, H.W.; Choi, H.J. Brand personality of Korean dance and sustainable behavioral intention of
     global consumers in four countries: Focusing on the technological acceptance model. Sustainability 2021, 13, 11160. [CrossRef]
140. Kim, J.H.; Kim, G.J.; Choi, H.J.; Seok, B.I.; Lee, N.H. Effects of social network services (SNS) subjective norms on SNS addiction.
     J. Psychol. Afr. 2019, 29, 582–588. [CrossRef]
141. Kim, J.H.; Jung, S.H.; Ahn, J.C.; Kim, B.S.; Choi, H.J. Social networking sites self-image antecedents of social networking site
     addiction. J. Psychol. Afr. 2020, 30, 243–248. [CrossRef]
142. Choi, H.J.; Ahn, J.C.; Jung, S.H.; Kim, J.H. Communities of practice and knowledge management systems: Effects on knowledge
     management activities and innovation performance. Knowl. Manag. Res. Pract. 2020, 18, 53–68. [CrossRef]
143. Kwon, J.H.; Jung, S.H.; Choi, H.J.; Kim, J. Antecedent factors that affect restaurant brand trust and brand loyalty: Focusing on US
     and Korean consumers.  J. Prod. Brand. Manag. 2021, 30, 990–1015. [Cross